57896 Rev 3.00 - Aug 28, 2024
PPR for AMD Family 1Ah Model 44h B0
3
Reliability, Availability, and Serviceability (RAS) Features
A full implementation of RAS involves capabilities and support from the processor design, board hardware design, BIOS, 
firmware, and software.
3.1
Machine Check Architecture
Table 21: Machine Check Terms and Acronyms
Term
Description
MCA
Machine Check Architecture.
MCAX
Machine Check Architecture eXtensions.
WRIG
Writes Ignored.
3.1.1
Overview
The processor contains logic and registers to detect, log, and correct errors in the data or control paths. The Machine 
Check Architecture (MCA) defines facilities by which processor and system hardware errors are logged and reported to 
system software. This allows system software to perform a strategic role in recovery from and diagnosis of hardware 
errors.
3.1.1.1
Legacy Machine Check Architecture
The legacy x86 Machine Check Architecture (MCA) refers to the standard x86 facilities for error logging and reporting. 
Refer to the AMD64 Architecture Programmer's Manual for an architectural overview of the Machine Check Architecture.
Support for the MCA is indicated by Core::X86::Cpuid::FeatureIdEdx[MCA] or 
Core::X86::Cpuid::FeatureExtIdEdx[MCA].
3.1.1.2
Machine Check Architecture Extensions
Machine Check Architecture Extensions (MCAX) is AMD's x86-64 extension to the Machine Check Architecture.
Goals of MCAX include:
•
Accommodate a variety of implementations, where each implementation may have a different assignment of
MCA bank to block.
•
For example, one implementation may have 1 memory channel with an MCA bank, and another otherwise
identical implementation may have 2 memory channels, each with their own MCA bank. Therefore, MCA
bank allocation will appear different between these two implementations. MCAX is designed to require 
no assumptions about which MCA banks access which blocks.
•
Provide granular information for error logging, to improve error handling and diagnosibility.
•
Preserve compatibility with system software which is not MCAX-aware.
Features of the MCA Extensions include:
•
Increased MCA Bank Count: Features to support an expansion of the number of MCA banks supported by AMD 
processors.
•
MCA Extension Registers: Expanded information logged in MCA banks to allow for improved error handling, 
better diagnosability, and future scalability.
•
MCA DOER/SEER Roles: Separation of MCA information to take advantage of emerging software roles, namely 
297
[AMD Public Use]
