57896 Rev 3.00 - Aug 28, 2024
PPR for AMD Family 1Ah Model 44h B0
Access to legacy MCA_CTL_MASK (MSRC001_00xx) causes a General Protection Fault (#GP). 
Access to legacy MC4_MISC1-8 (MSRC000_0408:C000_040F) is RAZ/WRIG.
3.1.3
Machine Check Errors
3.1.3.1
Error Severities
The classes of machine check errors are, in priority order from highest to lowest:
•
Uncorrected
•
Deferred
•
Corrected
Uncorrected errors cannot be corrected by hardware. Uncorrected errors update the status and address registers if not 
masked from logging in MCA_CTL_MASK. Information in the status and address registers from a previously logged 
lower priority error is overwritten. Previously logged errors of the same priority are not overwritten. Uncorrected errors 
that are enabled for reporting in MCA_CTL result in reporting to software via machine check exceptions. If an 
uncorrected error is masked from logging, the error is ignored by hardware (exceptions are noted in the register 
definitions). If an uncorrected error is disabled from reporting, containment of the error and logging/reporting of 
subsequent errors may be affected. Therefore, enable reporting of unmasked uncorrected errors for normal operation. 
Disable reporting of uncorrected errors only for debug purposes.
Deferred errors are errors that cannot be corrected by hardware, but do not cause an immediate interruption in
program flow, loss of data integrity, or corruption of processor state. These errors indicate that data has been
corrupted but not consumed; no exception is generated because the data has not been referenced by a core or an
IO link. Hardware writes information to the status and address registers in the corresponding bank that identifies
the source of the error if deferred errors are enabled for logging. If there is information in the status and
address registers from a previously logged lower priority error, it is overwritten. Previously logged errors of the
same or higher priority are not overwritten. Deferred errors are not reported via machine check exceptions;
they can optionally be reported via LVT or SMI.
Corrected errors are those which have been corrected by hardware and cause no loss of data or corruption of
processor state. Hardware writes the status and address registers in the corresponding register bank with information that 
identifies the source of the error if they are enabled for logging. Corrected errors are not reported via machine check 
exceptions. Some corrected errors may optionally be reported to software via LVT or SMI if the number of errors exceeds 
a configurable threshold.
An error to be logged when the status register contains valid data can result in an overflow condition. During
error overflow conditions, the new error may not be logged or an error which has already been logged in the
status register may be overwritten. 
Table 25 [Error Overwrite Priorities] indicates which errors are overwritten in the error status registers.
Table 25: Error Overwrite Priorities
Older Error
Uncorrected
Deferred
Corrected
Newer
Uncorrected
-
Overwrite
Overwrite
Deferred
-
-
Overwrite
302
[AMD Public Use]
