57896 Rev 3.00 - Aug 28, 2024
PPR for AMD Family 1Ah Model 44h B0
Error Management (Dynamic Operational Error Handling, or DOER) for managing running programs, and Fault 
Management (Symptom Elaboration of Errors, or SEER) for hardware diagnosability and reconfiguration. This 
clearer separation is accompanied by the assurances of architectural state (vs. implementation dependent state), so 
that operating systems can rely on the state and exploit new functionality.
Support for Machine Check Architecture Extensions (MCAX) is indicated by Core::X86::Cpuid::RasCap[ScalableMca].
3.1.1.3
Use of MCA Information
The MCA registers contain information that can be used for multiple purposes. Some of this information is architecturally 
specified, and remains consistent from generation to generation, enabling portable, stable code. Some of this information 
is implementation specific; it is vital for diagnosis and other software functions, but may change with new 
implementations. It is important to understand how this information is categorized, and how it should be used. This 
section describes a framework for that.
There are two fundamental roles to be carried out after an error occurs; Error Management and Fault Management. All 
information required for Error Management is architectural and stable; some information required for Fault Management 
is also architectural.
3.1.1.3.1
Error Management
Error Management describes actions necessary by operational software (e.g., the operating system or the hypervisor) to 
manage running programs that are affected by the error. The list of possible actions for operational error management is 
generally fairly short: take no action; terminate a single affected process, program, or virtual machine; terminate system 
operation. The Error Management role is defined as the DOER role (Dynamic Operational Error Handling). The name is 
intended to indicate an active role in managing running programs. Information used by the DOER is fairly limited and 
straightforward. It includes only those status fields needed to make decisions about the scope and severity of the error, and
to determine what immediate action is to be taken.
3.1.1.3.2
Fault Management
Fault Management describes optional actions for purposes of diagnosis, repair, and reconfiguration of the underlying 
hardware. The Fault Management role is described as SEER (Symptom Elaboration of Errors) because it peers further into
hardware behavior and may try to influence future behavior via Predictive Fault Analysis, reconfiguration, service actions,
etc. Because the SEER depends on understanding specifics of hardware configuration, it necessarily requires 
implementation specific knowledge and may not be portable across implementations.
Fields that are not explicitly specified as DOER are SEER. By separating error handling software into DOER and SEER 
roles, programmers can create both simpler and more functional code. The terms DOER and SEER appear in other 
sections of this document as an aid to reasoning about error handling and understanding actions to be taken.
3.1.2
Machine Check Registers
Host software references MCA registers via MSRs. MSRs are accessed through x86 WRMSR and RDMSR instructions.
MSR addresses are private to a logical core; a given MSR referenced by two different cores results in references to two 
different MCA registers.
3.1.2.1
Global Registers
Core::X86::Cpuid::FeatureIdEdx[MCA] or Core::X86::Cpuid::FeatureExtIdEdx[MCA] indicates the presence of the 
following machine check registers:
298
[AMD Public Use]
