57896 Rev 3.00 - Aug 28, 2024
PPR for AMD Family 1Ah Model 44h B0
connections are routed too close to other signal carrying lines. Clock skew is usually a result of higher than expected 
capacitance, between the SBI signals (clock and / or data) and ground, which causes the master and slave devices to 
disagree on when data should be stable and when it is allowed to be changing.
4.4.3.1
Error Detection
SBI provides several methods of error detection: protocol ACK/NAK, packet error correction (PEC) fields, and timeouts. 
The ACK/NAK mechanism is always active in SBI, but the PEC and timeouts are optional.
4.4.3.1.1
ACK/NAK Mechanism
After each byte of an SBI message, the device receiving that byte must either acknowledge (ACK) that it received the byte
correctly, or deny (NAK) that the byte was correctly received. This is most easily seen in the case of the address bytes 
which follow a START (or REPEATED START) sequence, but can be used anywhere in the message. In the case of an 
address byte, if a slave device recognizes the address, it will respond with an ACK and await the rest of the message. If a 
slave device does not recognize the message, it will respond with a NAK and ignore the rest of the message.
4.4.3.1.2
Packet Error Correction (PEC)
The RMI protocols allow for PEC bytes to be appended to messages. The sending side calculates the PEC, based on the 
data it intends to transmit, and appends it the transmitted data. The receiving side calculates the PEC based on the data it 
actually receives and compares that to the PEC it receives. If the two PECs do not match, an error has occurred and the 
message should be discarded. When a device detects a PEC mismatch, it should send a NAK in response to the PEC.
No special programming is needed to enable the PEC on AMD devices. If the PEC is present on an incoming message, the
device will verify the PEC and ACK or NAK as appropriate. The PEC is always calculated on outgoing messages. It is up 
to the bus master to request the PEC by sending clocks for that byte before sending either a NAK or a STOP sequence.
4.4.3.1.3
Bus Timeouts
Bus timeouts should be enabled to prevent a device waiting indefinitely on a message that may not be coming. Some 
timeouts are used to prevent the SBI bus from waiting for a response from a CPU that is in a power-saving idle mode. 
Other timeouts are used to allow the slave device to recognize that the bus master is attempting to reset all of the devices 
on the SBI bus. Either way, when a device recognizes a timeout, it should abort its current message transfer.
4.4.3.2
Error Recovery
The simplest form of error recovery is a retry. When the bus master detects an unexpected NAK, it should abort the 
current transfer and retry the message sequence. In some cases, however, a message can be so garbled that a simple retry 
is insufficient. This can occur, if there are multiple devices on the bus and a garbled address byte has caused the wrong 
slave device to be selected. That slave device may even continue to transmit during the retry. In those cases, it will be 
necessary to force a reset of all devices on the SBI bus, before retrying the message transfer.
4.4.3.2.1
SBI Bus Reset
The bus master can hold the clock low for a period longer the standard timeout in order to force slave devices off the bus 
(see docSMB section 3.1.1.3 of the System Management Bus (SMBus) Specification, version 2.0). All SBI slave devices 
are required to reset their communications if another device holds the clock line low for longer than TTimeout, min (25 
milliseconds). The devices are required to complete their reset within TTimeout, max (35 milliseconds). SBI bus masters 
should use the extended timeout to force a reset of all slave devices if a simple retry does not remove an error condition.
466
[AMD Public Use]
