57896 Rev 3.00 - Aug 28, 2024
PPR for AMD Family 1Ah Model 44h B0
Term
Description
AGESATM
AMD Generic Encapsulated Software Architecture.
AP
Applications Processor.
APML
Advanced Platform Management Link.
BCD
Binary Coded Decimal number format.
BCS
Base Configuration Space.
BIST
Built-In Self-Test. Hardware within the processor that generates test patterns and verifies that 
they are stored correctly (in the case of memories) or received without error (in the case of links).
Boot VID
Boot Voltage ID. This is the VDD and VDDNB voltage level that the processor requests from the 
external voltage regulator during the initial phase of the cold boot sequence.
C-states
These are ACPI defined core power states. C0 is operational. All other C-states are low-power 
states in which the processor is not executing code. See docACPI.
Cold reset
PWROK is de-asserted and RESET_L is asserted.
COF
Current operating frequency of a given clock domain.
DID
Divisor Identifier. Specifies the post-PLL divisor used to reduce the COF.
Doubleword
A 32-bit value.
DW
Doubleword.
ECS
Extended Configuration Space.
FCH
The integrated platform subsystem that contains the IO interfaces and bridges them to the system 
BIOS. Previously included in the Southbridge.
FID
Frequency Identifier. Specifies the PLL frequency multiplier for a given clock domain.
GB
Gbyte or Gigabyte; 1,073,741,824 bytes.
GT/s
Giga-Transfers per second.
IFCM
Isochronous flow-control mode, as defined in the link specification.
IO configuration
Access to configuration space though IO ports CF8h and CFCh.
IP
In electronic design, a semiconductor Intellectual Property, IP, or IP block is a reusable unit of 
logic, cell, or integrated circuit layout design that is the intellectual property of one party.
KB
Kbyte or Kilobyte; 1024 bytes.
Master abort
This is a PCI-defined term that is applied to transactions on other than PCI buses. It indicates that 
the transaction is terminated without affecting the intended target; Reads return all 1s; Writes are 
discarded; the master abort error code is returned in the response, if applicable; master abort error
bits are set if applicable.
MB
Megabyte; 1024 KB.
MMIO
Memory-Mapped Input-Output range. This is physical address space that is mapped to the IO 
functions such as the IO links or MMIO configuration.
MMIO 
configuration
Access to configuration space through memory space.
OW
Octword. An 128-bit value.
PCIe®
PCI Express.
PCS
Physical Coding Sublayer.
Processor
System on Chip (SoC) covered by this PPR. See 1.8 [Processor Overview].
P-state
Performance state. 
QW
Quadword. A 64-bit value.
RAS
Reliability, availability and serviceability (industry term). See 3.1 [Machine Check Architecture].
REFCLK
Reference clock. Refers to the clock frequency (100 MHz) or the clock period (10 ns) depending 
on the context used.
RX
Receiver.
Shutdown
A state in which the affected core waits for either INIT, RESET, or NMI. When shutdown state is 
entered, a shutdown special cycle is sent on the IO links.
31
[AMD Public Use]
