57896 Rev 3.00 - Aug 28, 2024
PPR for AMD Family 1Ah Model 44h B0
List of Definitions
ABS: ABS(integer expression): Remove sign from signed value.
AGESATM: AMD Generic Encapsulated Software Architecture.
AM5: Desktop, single socket. For client desktop platform (LGA) with 
DDR5. AM5 = (Core::X86::Cpuid::BrandId[PkgType] == 00h).
AP: Applications Processor.
APML: Advanced Platform Management Link.
ARA: Alert response address.
ARP: Address Resolution Protocol
BAR: The BAR, or base address register, physical register mnemonic format 
is of the form PREFIXxZZZ. PREFIX is an all capital letter name that 
connotes the BAR to which the offset is added to get the physical address of 
the operation. ZZZ is the offset.
BCD: Binary Coded Decimal number format.
BCS: Base Configuration Space.
BIST: Built-In Self-Test. Hardware within the processor that generates test 
patterns and verifies that they are stored correctly (in the case of memories) 
or received without error (in the case of links).
BMC: Base management controller.
Boot VID: Boot Voltage ID. This is the VDD and VDDNB voltage level that 
the processor requests from the external voltage regulator during the initial 
phase of the cold boot sequence.
BSC: Boot strap core. Core 0 of the BSP.
BSP: Boot strap processor.
C-states: These are ACPI defined core power states. C0 is operational. All 
other C-states are low-power states in which the processor is not executing 
code. See docACPI.
Canonical-address: An address in which the state of the most-significant 
implemented bit is duplicated in all the remaining higher-order bits, up to 
bit[63].
CCX: Core Complex where more than one core shares L3 resources.
CEIL: CEIL(real expression): Rounds real number up to nearest integer.
CMP: Specifies the core number.
COF: Current operating frequency of a given clock domain.
Cold reset: PWROK is de-asserted and RESET_L is asserted.
Configurable: Indicates that the access type is configurable as described by 
the documentation.
CoreCOF: Core current operating frequency in MHz. CoreCOF = 
Core::X86::Msr::PStateDef[CpuFid[11:0]] * 5MHz. 
COUNT: COUNT(integer expression): Returns the number of binary 1's in 
the integer.
CpuCoreNum: Specifies the core number.
CPUID: The CPUID, or x86 processor identification state, physical register 
mnemonic format is of the form CPUID FnXXXX_XXXX_EiX[_xYYY], 
where XXXX_XXXX is the hex value in the EAX and YYY is the hex value
in ECX.
DID: Divisor Identifier. Specifies the post-PLL divisor used to reduce the
COF.
docACPI: Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) 
Specification. http://uefi.org/specifications.
docAPM1: AMD64 Architecture Programmer's Manual Volume 1: 
Application Programming, order# 24592.
docAPM2: AMD64 Architecture Programmer's Manual Volume 2: System 
Programming, order# 24593.
docAPM3: AMD64 Architecture Programmer's Manual Volume 3: 
Instruction-Set Reference, order# 24594.
docAPM4: AMD64 Architecture Programmer's Manual Volume 4: 128-Bit 
and 256-Bit Media Instructions, order# 26568.
docAPM5: AMD64 Architecture Programmer's Manual Volume 5: 64-Bit 
Media and x87 Floating-Point Instructions, order# 26569.
docASF: Alert Standard Format Specification. http://dmtf.org/standards/asf.
docATA: AT Attachment with Packet Interface. http://www.t13.org.
docDP: VESA DisplayPort Standard. http://www.vesa.org/vesa-standards.
docI2C: I2C Bus Specification. 
http://www.nxp.com/documents/user_manual/UM10204.pdf
docIOMMU: AMD I/O Virtualization Technology Specification, order# 
48882.
docJEDEC: JEDEC Standards. http://www.jedec.org.
docPCIe: PCI Express® Specification. http://www.pcisig.org.
docPCIlb: PCI Local Bus Specification. http://www.pcisig.org.
docSATA: Serial ATA Specification. http://www.sata-io.org.
docSDHC: Secure Digital Host Controller Standard Specification. 
https://www.sdcard.org.
docUSB: Universal Serial Bus Specification. http://www.usb.org.
Doubleword: A 32-bit value.
DW: Doubleword.
EC: Embedded Controller.
ECS: Extended Configuration Space.
Error-on-read: Error occurs on read.
Error-on-write: Error occurs on write.
Error-on-write-0: Error occurs on bitwise write of 0.
Error-on-write-1: Error occurs on bitwise write of 1.
FCH: The integrated platform subsystem that contains the IO interfaces and 
bridges them to the system BIOS. Previously included in the Southbridge.
FID: Frequency Identifier. Specifies the PLL frequency multiplier for a given
clock domain.
FL1: Notebook and mobile workstations. FL1 = 
(Core::X86::Cpuid::BrandId[PkgType] == 01h).
FLOOR: FLOOR(integer expression): Rounds real number down to nearest 
integer.
GT/s: Giga-Transfers per second.
HWPF: Hardware Prefetcher.
IBS: Instruction based sampling.
IFCM: Isochronous flow-control mode, as defined in the link specification.
Inaccessible: Not readable or writable (e.g., Hide ? Inaccessible : Read-
Write).
IO configuration: Access to configuration space though IO ports CF8h and 
CFCh.
IORR: IO range register.
KBC: Keyboard Controller.
L1 cache: The level 1 caches (instruction cache and the data cache).
L2 cache: The level 2 caches.
Linear (virtual) address: The address generated by a core after the segment 
is applied.
LINT: Local interrupt.
Logical address: The address generated by a core before the segment is 
applied.
logical mnemonic: The register mnemonic format that describes the register 
functionally, what namespace to which the register belongs, a name for the 
register that connotes its function, and optionally, named parameters that 
indicate the different function of each instance (e.g., 
Link::Phy::PciDevVendIDF3). See 1.4.3.1 [Logical Mnemonic].
LRU: Least recently used. 
LVT: Local vector table. A collection of APIC registers that define interrupts 
for local events (e.g., APIC[530:500] [Extended Interrupt [3:0] Local Vector 
Table]).
Macro-op: The front-end of the pipeline breaks instructions into macro-ops 
and transfers (dispatches) them to the back-end of the pipeline for scheduling
and execution. See Software Optimization Guide.
Master abort: This is a PCI-defined term that is applied to transactions on 
other than PCI buses. It indicates that the transaction is terminated without 
affecting the intended target; Reads return all 1s; Writes are discarded; the 
master abort error code is returned in the response, if applicable; master abort
error bits are set if applicable.
Master or SMBus Master: The device that initiates and terminates all 
communication and drives the clock, SCL.
MAX: MAX(integer expression list): Picks maximum integer or real value 
of comma separated list.
MB: Megabyte; 1024 KB.
MCA: Machine Check Architecture.
MCAX: Machine Check Architecture eXtensions.
MergeEvent: A PMC event that is capable of counter increments greater 
than 15, thus requiring merging a pair of even/odd performance monitors.
Micro-op: Processor schedulers break down macro-ops into sequences of 
even simpler instructions called micro-ops, each of which specifies a single 
primitive operation. See Software Optimization Guide.
MIN: MIN(integer expression list): Picks minimum integer or real value of 
comma separated list.
MMIO: Memory-Mapped Input-Output range. This is physical address 
space that is mapped to the IO functions such as the IO links or MMIO 
configuration.
MMIO configuration: Access to configuration space through memory 
space.
MPB: Microcode patch block.
485
[AMD Public Use]
