57896 Rev 3.00 - Aug 28, 2024
PPR for AMD Family 1Ah Model 44h B0
MSR: The MSR, or x86 model specific register, physical register mnemonic 
format is of the form MSRXXXX_XXXX, where XXXX_XXXX is the 
hexadecimal MSR number. This space is accessed through x86 defined 
RDMSR and WRMSR instructions.
MTRR: Memory-type range register. The MTRRs specify the type of 
memory associated with various memory ranges.
NBC: NBC=(CPUID Fn00000001_EBX[LocalApicId[3:0]] == 0). Node 
Base Core. The lowest numbered core in the node.
NTA: Non-Temporal Access.
OW: Octword. An 128-bit value.
P-state: Performance state. 
PCICFG: The PCICFG, or PCI defined configuration space, physical 
register mnemonic format is of the form DXFYxZZZ. Bus 0 is implied, X 
specifies the hexadecimal device number (this may be 1 or 2 digits). Y 
specifies the function number. ZZZ specifies the hexadecimal byte address 
(this may be 2 or 3 digits). Example: D18F2x40 specifies the register at bus 
0, device 18h, function 2, and address 40h. If the mnemonic starts with B, 
then the physical mnemonic format is BWWDXFYxZZZ where WW 
specifies the hexadecimal bus number (1 or 2 hex digits) or "XX" implying 
that the bus is relocatable. Example; BXXD00F6x40 specifies that the bus is 
relocatable, B0AD00F2x000 specifies that the bus is 0Ah.
PCIe®: PCI Express.
PCS: Physical Coding Sublayer.
PEC: Packet error code.
physical mnemonic: The register mnemonic that is formed based on the 
physical address used to access the register (e.g., D18F3x00). See 1.4.3.2 
[Physical Mnemonic].
PMC: The PMC, or x86 performance monitor counter, physical register 
mnemonic format is any of the forms {PMCxXXX, L2IPMCxXXX, 
NBPMCxXXX}, where XXX is the performance monitor select.
POR: Power on reset.
POW: POW(base, exponent): POW(x,y) returns the value x to the power of 
y.
PPIN: Protected Processor Inventory Number.
Processor: System on Chip (SoC) covered by this PPR. See 1.8 [Processor 
Overview].
PTE: Page table entry.
QW: Quadword. A 64-bit value.
RAS: Reliability, availability and serviceability (industry term). See 3.1 
[Machine Check Architecture].
REFCLK: Reference clock. Refers to the clock frequency (100 MHz) or the 
clock period (10 ns) depending on the context used.
register instance parameter specifier: A register instance parameter 
specifier is of the form _register parameter name[register parameter value 
list] (e.g., The register instance parameter specifier _dct[1:0] has a register 
parameter name of dct (The DCT PHY instance name) and a register 
parameter value list of "1:0" or 2 instances of DCT PHY).
register instance specifier: The register instance specifier exists when there 
is more than one instance for a register. The register instance specifier 
consists of one or more register instance parameter specifier (e.g., The
register instance specifier _dct[1:0]_chiplet[BCST,3:0]_pad[BCST,11:0] 
consists of 3 register instance parameter specifiers, _dct[1:0], 
_chiplet[BCST,3:0], and _pad[BCST,11:0]).
register name: A name that connotes the function of the register. 
register namespace: A namespace for which the register name must be 
unique. A register namespace indicates to which IP it belongs and an IP may 
have multiple namespaces. A namespace is a string that supports a list of "::" 
separated names. The convention is for the list of names to be hierarchical, 
with the most significant name first and the least significant name last (e.g., 
Link::Phy::Rx is the RX component in the Link PHY).
register parameter name: A register parameter name is the name of the 
number of instances at some level of the logical hierarchy (e.g., The register 
parameter name dct specifies how many instances of the DCT PHY exist).
register parameter value list: The register parameter value list is the logical
name for each instance of the register parameter name (e.g., For _dct[1:0], 
there are 2 DCT PHY instances, with the logical names 0 and 1, but it should
be noted that the logical names 0 and 1 can correspond to physical values 
other than 0 and 1). It is the purpose of the AddressMappingTable to map 
these register parameter values to physical address values for the register.
Reserved-write-as-0: Reads are undefined. Must always write 0.
Reserved-write-as-1: Reads are undefined. Must always write 1.
ROUND: ROUND(real expression): Rounds to the nearest integer; halfway 
rounds away from zero.
RTS: Remote temperature sensor, typical examples are ADM1032, LM99, 
MAX6657, EMC1002.
SB-RMI: Remote Management interface.
SB-TSI: Sideband Internal Temperature Sensor Interface. See APML.
SBI: Sideband interface.
Shutdown: A state in which the affected core waits for either INIT, RESET, 
or NMI. When shutdown state is entered, a shutdown special cycle is sent on 
the IO links.
Slave or SMBus slave: The slave cannot initiate SMBus communication and
cannot drive the clock but can drive the data signal SDA and the alert signal 
ALERT_L.
SMAF: System Management Action Field. This is the code passed from the 
SMC to the processors in STPCLK assertion messages.
SMI: System management interrupt.
SMM: System Management Mode.
SMT: Simultaneous multithreading. See 
Core::X86::Cpuid::CoreId[ThreadsPerCore].
Speculative event: A performance monitor event counter that counts all 
occurrences of the event even if the event occurs during speculative code 
execution.
SSC: Spread Spectrum Clocking.
SVM: Secure virtual machine.
TCC: Temperature calculation circuit.
Tctl: Processor temperature control value.
TDC: Thermal Design Current.
TDP: Thermal Design Power. A power consumption parameter that is used in
conjunction with thermal specifications to design appropriate cooling 
solutions for the processor.
Thread: One architectural context for instruction execution.
TOM2: Top of extended Memory.
TSI: Temperature sensor interface.
TSM: Temperature sensor macro.
UMI: Unified Media Interface. The link between the processor and the FCH.
UNIT: UNIT(register field reference): Input operand is a register field 
reference that contains a valid values table that defines a value with a unit 
(e.g., clocks, ns, ms, etc.). This function takes the value in the register field 
and returns the value associated with the unit (e.g., If the field had a valid 
value definition where 1010b was defined as 5 ns). Then if the field had the 
value of 1010b, then UNIT() would return the value 5.
Unpredictable: The behavior of both reads and writes is unpredictable.
VID: Voltage level identifier.
VMPL: Virtual Machine Privilege Level.
Volatile: Indicates that a register field value may be modified by hardware, 
firmware, or microcode when fetching the first instruction and/or might have
read or write side effects. No read may depend on the results of a previous 
read and no write may be omitted based on the value of a previous read or 
write. Not volatile indicates that software may service a read from the results
of a previous read and that a write may be dropped if it's value matches the 
value previously read or written.
Warm reset: RESET_L is asserted only (while PWROK stays high).
WDT: Watchdog timer. A timer that detects activity and triggers an error if a 
specified period of time expires without the activity.
WRIG: Writes Ignored.
Write-0-only: Writing a 0 clears to a 0; Writing a 1 has no effect. If not 
associated with Read, then reads are undefined. 
Write-1-only: Writing a 1 sets to a 1; Writing a 0 has no effect. If not 
associated with Read, then reads are undefined.
Write-1-to-clear: Writing a 1 clears to a 0; Writing a 0 has no effect. If not 
associated with Read, then reads are undefined.
Write-once: Capable of being written once; all subsequent writes have no 
effect. If not associated with Read, then reads are undefined.
X2APICEN: x2 APIC is enabled. X2APICEN = 
(Core::X86::Msr::APIC_BAR[ApicEn] && 
Core::X86::Msr::APIC_BAR[x2ApicEn]).
XBAR: Cross bar; command packet switch.
486
[AMD Public Use]
