57896 Rev 3.00 - Aug 28, 2024
PPR for AMD Family 1Ah Model 44h B0
Table 8: AccessType Definitions
Term
Description
Read-only
Readable; writes are ignored.
Read-write
Readable and writable.
Read
Readable; must be associated with one of the following {Write-once, Write-1-only, Write-1-to-
clear, Error-on-write}.
Write-once
Capable of being written once; all subsequent writes have no effect. If not associated with Read, 
then reads are undefined.
Write-only
Writable. Reads are undefined.
Write-1-only
Writing a 1 sets to a 1; Writing a 0 has no effect. If not associated with Read, then reads are 
undefined.
Write-1-to-clear
Writing a 1 clears to a 0; Writing a 0 has no effect. If not associated with Read, then reads are 
undefined.
Write-0-only
Writing a 0 clears to a 0; Writing a 1 has no effect. If not associated with Read, then reads are 
undefined. 
Error-on-read
Error occurs on read.
Error-on-write
Error occurs on write.
Error-on-write-0
Error occurs on bitwise write of 0.
Error-on-write-1
Error occurs on bitwise write of 1.
Inaccessible
Not readable or writable (e.g., Hide ? Inaccessible : Read-Write).
Configurable
Indicates that the access type is configurable as described by the documentation.
Unpredictable
The behavior of both reads and writes is unpredictable.
Reserved-write-
as-1
Reads are undefined. Must always write 1.
Reserved-write-
as-0
Reads are undefined. Must always write 0.
Volatile
Indicates that a register field value may be modified by hardware, firmware, or microcode when 
fetching the first instruction and/or might have read or write side effects. No read may depend on 
the results of a previous read and no write may be omitted based on the value of a previous read or 
write. Not volatile indicates that software may service a read from the results of a previous read and 
that a write may be dropped if it's value matches the value previously read or written.
1.4.4.10.1
Conditional Access Type Expression
The ternary operator can be used to express an access type that is conditional on an expression that can contain any of the 
following:
•
A register field value
•
A constant
•
A definition
1.4.4.11
Field Reset
The Reset keyword is optional and specifies the value for a register field at the time that hardware exits reset, before 
firmware initialization initiates.
Unless preceded by one of the following prefixes, the reset value is called warm reset and the value is applied at both 
warm and cold reset.
27
[AMD Public Use]
