57896 Rev 3.00 - Aug 28, 2024
PPR for AMD Family 1Ah Model 44h B0
4.2.2
I2C Support
The processor supports higher I2C-defined speeds as specified in the Physical Layer Characteristics section. The 
processor supports the I2C master code transmission in order to reach the high-speed bus mode. Multiple SBI commands 
may be sent within a single high-speed mode session. Ten-bit addressing is not supported.
4.3
SBI Processor Information
4.3.1
SBI Processor Pins
Up to six processor pins are used for SBI support: two for data transfer, three for address determination and one for an 
interrupt output. Of the three address pins, one bit is socket_id used to determine which package is addressed. These pins 
do not have changeable pinstrap. The Serial Interface Clock (SIC) and Serial Interface Data (SID) pins function as the 
SMBus clock and data pins respectively. The SMBus alert pin (ALERT_L) is used to signal interrupts to the SMBus 
master.
4.3.1.1
Physical Layer Characteristics
The SIC and SID pins differ from the SMBus specification with regard to voltage. System board voltage translators are 
necessary to convert the SIC and SID pin voltage levels to that of the SMBus specification.
SBI supports frequencies of 100 KHz, 400 KHz over SIC.
4.3.2
Processor States
SBI responds to SMBus traffic except when PWROK is de-asserted (and for a brief period after it is de-asserted). Access 
to internal processor state using SB-RMI is not supported under the following conditions:
• During cold and warm resets.
• During the APIC spin loop.
4.4
SBI Protocols
4.4.1
SBI Modified Block Write-Block Read Process Call
SBI uses a modified SMBus PEC-optional Block Write-Block Read Process Call protocol. The change from the SMBus 
protocol is support for an optional intermediate PEC byte and ACK after the ACK for Data Byte M. This PEC byte covers 
the data starting with the Slave Address through Data Byte M and is controlled by SBRMI::Control[PECEn]. This is the 
only modification to the standard SMBus PEC-optional Block Write-Block Read Process Call as defined by the SMBus 
Specification. The PEC byte after Data Byte N covers all previous bytes excluding the first PEC byte. Figure below shows
the transmission protocol. Each byte in the protocol is sent with the most significant bit first (bit[7]). The master may reset
the bus by holding the clock low for 25ms as specified by the SMBus Specification.
457
[AMD Public Use]
