System Resources
53
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Trap Flag (TF) Bit.  Bit 8. Software sets the TF bit to 1 to enable single-step mode during software 
debug. Clearing this bit to 0 disables single-step mode. 
When single-step mode is enabled at the start of an instruction's execution, a debug exception (#DB) 
occurs immediately after the instruction completes execution. Single stepping is automatically 
disabled (TF is set to 0) when the #DB exception occurs or when any exception or interrupt occurs.
See Section 13.1.4 “Single Stepping,” on page 408 for information on using the single-step mode 
during debugging.
Interrupt Flag (IF) Bit.  Bit 9. Software sets the IF bit to 1 to enable maskable interrupts. Clearing this 
bit to 0 causes the processor to ignore maskable interrupts. The state of the IF bit does not affect the 
response of a processor to non-maskable interrupts, software-interrupt instructions, or exceptions.
The ability to modify the IF bit depends on several factors:
•
The current privilege-level (CPL)
•
The I/O privilege level (RFLAGS.IOPL)
•
Whether or not virtual-8086 mode extensions are enabled (CR4.VME=1)
•
Whether or not protected-mode virtual interrupts are enabled (CR4.PVI=1)
See Section 8.1.4 “Masking External Interrupts,” on page 244 for information on interrupt masking. 
See Section 6.2.3 “Accessing the RFLAGS Register,” on page 178 for information on the specific 
instructions used to modify the IF bit.
I/O Privilege Level Field (IOPL) Field.  Bits 13:12. The IOPL field specifies the privilege level 
required to execute I/O address-space instructions (i.e., instructions that address the I/O space rather 
than memory-mapped I/O, such as IN, OUT, INS, OUTS, etc.). For software to execute these 
instructions, the current privilege-level (CPL) must be equal to or higher than (lower numerical value 
than) the privilege specified by IOPL (CPL <= IOPL). If the CPL is lower than (higher numerical 
value than) that specified by the IOPL (CPL > IOPL), the processor causes a general-protection 
exception (#GP) when software attempts to execute an I/O instruction. See “Protected-Mode I/O” in 
Volume 1 for information on how IOPL controls access to address-space I/O.
Virtual-8086 mode uses IOPL to control virtual interrupts and the IF bit when virtual-8086 mode 
extensions are enabled (CR4.VME=1). The protected-mode virtual-interrupt mechanism (PVI) also 
uses IOPL to control virtual interrupts and the IF bit when PVI is enabled (CR4.PVI=1). See 
Section 8.10 “Virtual Interrupts,” on page 288 for information on how IOPL is used by the virtual 
interrupt mechanism.
Nested Task (NT) Bit.  Bit 14, IRET reads the NT bit to determine whether the current task is nested 
within another task. When NT is set to 1, the current task is nested within another task. When NT is 
cleared to 0, the current task is at the top level (not nested).
The processor sets the NT bit during a task switch resulting from a CALL, interrupt, or exception 
through a task gate. When an IRET is executed from legacy mode while the NT bit is set, a task switch 
occurs. See Section 12.3.3 “Task Switches Using Task Gates,” on page 385 for information on 
[AMD Public Use]
