218
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
There are two variants of the memory type-field encodings: standard and extended. Both the standard 
and extended encodings use type-field bits 2:0 to specify the memory type. For the standard 
encodings, bits 7:3 are reserved and must be zero. For the extended encodings, bits 7:5 are reserved, 
but bits 4:3 are defined as the RdMem and WrMem bits. “Extended Fixed-Range MTRR Type-Field 
Encodings” on page 232 describes the function of these extended bits and how software enables them. 
Only the fixed-range MTRRs support the extended type-field encodings. Variable-range MTRRs use 
the standard encodings.
Table 7-6 on page 218 shows the memory types supported by the MTRR mechanism and their 
encoding in the MTRR type fields referenced throughout this section. Unless the extended type-field 
encodings are explicitly enabled, the processor uses the type values shown in Table 7-6.
If the MTRRs are disabled in implementations that support the MTRR mechanism, the default 
memory type is set to uncacheable (UC). Memory accesses are not cached even if the caches are 
enabled by clearing CR0.CD to 0. Cacheable memory types must be established using the MTRRs to 
enable memory accesses to be cached.
7.7.2  MTRRs
Both fixed-size and variable-size address ranges are supported by the MTRR mechanism. The fixed-
size ranges are restricted to the lower 1 Mbyte of physical-address space, while the variable-size 
ranges can be located anywhere in the physical-address space.
Figure 7-7 on page 219 shows an example mapping of physical memory using the fixed-size and 
variable-size MTRRs. The areas shaded gray are not mapped by the MTRRs. Unmapped areas are set 
to the software-selected default memory type. 
Table 7-6.
MTRR Type Field Encodings
Type Value
Type Name
Type Description
00h
UC—Uncacheable
All accesses are uncacheable. Write combining is not 
allowed. Speculative accesses are not allowed
01h
WC—Write-Combining
All accesses are uncacheable. Write combining is allowed. 
Speculative reads are allowed
04h
WT—Writethrough
Reads allocate cache lines on a cache miss. Cache lines are 
not allocated on a write miss. Write hits update the cache and 
main memory.
05h
WP—Write-Protect
Reads allocate cache lines on a cache miss. All writes update 
main memory. Cache lines are not allocated on a write miss. 
Write hits invalidate the cache line and update main memory.
06h
WB—Writeback
Reads allocate cache lines on a cache miss, and can allocate to 
either the shared, exclusive, or modified state. Writes allocate 
to the modified state on a cache miss.
[AMD Public Use]
