486
Processor Initialization and Long Mode Activation
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
SSE State Initialization.  Platform firmware or system software must also prepare the processor to 
allow execution of SSE instructions. The required preparations include:
•
Leaving CR0.EM cleared to 0 to allow execution of the SSE instructions. If CR0.EM is set to 1,
attempted execution of the SSE instructions except FXSAVE/FXRSTOR causes an invalid-opcode
exception (#UD). An attempt to execute either of these instructions when CR0.EM is set results in
a #NM exception.
•
Enabling the SSE instructions by setting CR4.OSFXSR to 1. Software cannot execute the SSE
instructions unless this bit is set. Setting this bit also indicates that system software uses the
FXSAVE and FXRSTOR instructions to save and restore, respectively, the SSE state. These
instructions also save and restore the 64-bit media state and x87 floating-point state.
•
Indicating that system software uses the SIMD floating-point exception (#XF) for handling SSE
floating-point exceptions. This is done by setting CR4.OSXMMEXCPT to 1. 
•
Setting (optionally) the MXCSR mask bits to mask or unmask SSE floating-point exceptions as
desired. Because this register can be read and written by application software, it is not absolutely
necessary for system software to initialize it.
Refer to “CR4 Register” on page 46 for additional information on these CR4 control bits.
14.2.4  Model-Specific Initialization
Implementations of the AMD64 architecture can contain model-specific features and registers that are 
not initialized by the processor and therefore require system-software initialization. System software 
must use the CPUID instruction to determine which features are supported. Model-specific features 
are generally configured using model-specific registers (MSRs), which can be read and written using 
the RDMSR and WRMSR instructions, respectively.
Some of the model-specific features are pervasive across many processor implementations of the 
AMD64 architecture and are therefore described within this volume. These include:
•
System-call extensions, which must be enabled in the EFER register before using the SYSCALL
and SYSRET instructions. See “System-Call Extension (SCE) Bit” on page 56 for information on
enabling these instructions.
•
Memory-typing MSRs. See “Memory-Type Range Registers (MTRRs)” on page 484 for
information on initializing and using these registers.
•
The machine-check mechanism. See “Initializing the Machine-Check Mechanism” on page 319
for information on enabling and using this capability.
•
Extensions to the debug mechanism. See “Software-Debug Resources” on page 391 for
information on initializing and using these extensions.
•
The performance-monitoring resources. See “Performance Monitoring Counters” on page 411 for
information on initializing and using these resources.
Initialization of other model-specific features used by the page-translation mechanism and long mode 
are described throughout the remainder of this section.
[AMD Public Use]
