Segmented Virtual Memory
105
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
4.9.1  Privilege-Level Concept
Segment protection is used to isolate and protect programs and data from each other. The segment-
protection mechanism supports four privilege levels in protected mode. The privilege levels are 
designated with a numerical value from 0 to 3, with 0 being the most privileged and 3 being the least 
privileged. System software typically assigns the privilege levels in the following manner:
•
Privilege-level 0 (most privilege)—This level is used by critical system-software components that
require direct access to, and control over, all processor and system resources. This can include
platform firmware, memory-management functions, and interrupt handlers.
•
Privilege-levels 1 and 2 (moderate privilege)—These levels are used by less-critical system-
software services that can access and control a limited scope of processor and system resources.
Software running at these privilege levels might include some device drivers and library routines.
These software routines can call more-privileged system-software services to perform functions
such as memory garbage-collection and file allocation. 
•
Privilege-level 3 (least privilege)—This level is used by application software. Software running at
privilege-level 3 is normally prevented from directly accessing most processor and system
resources. Instead, applications request access to the protected processor and system resources by
calling more-privileged service routines to perform the accesses.
Figure 4-25 shows the relationship of the four privilege levels to each other.
Figure 4-25.
Privilege-Level Relationships
4.9.2  Privilege-Level Types
There are three types of privilege levels the processor uses to control access to segments. These are 
CPL, DPL, and RPL.
Current Privilege-Level.  The current privilege-level (CPL) is the privilege level at which the 
processor is currently executing. The CPL is stored in an internal processor register that is invisible to 
513-236.eps
Application Programs
Memory Management
File Allocation
Interrupt Handling
Device-Drivers
Library Routines
Privilege
0
Privilege 1
Privilege 2
Privilege 3
[AMD Public Use]
