40
System Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
3
System Resources
The operating system manages the software-execution environment and general system operation 
through the use of system resources. These resources consist of system registers (control registers and 
model-specific registers) and system-data structures (memory-management and protection tables). 
The system-control registers are described in detail in this chapter; many of the features they control 
are described elsewhere in this volume. The model-specific registers supported by the AMD64 
architecture are introduced in this chapter. 
Because of their complexity, system-data structures are described in separate chapters. Refer to the 
following chapters for detailed information on these data structures:
•
Descriptors and descriptor tables are described in Section 4.4 “Segmentation Data Structures and
Registers,” on page 75.
•
Page-translation tables are described in Section 5.2 “Legacy-Mode Page Translation,” on page 131
and Section 5.3 “Long-Mode Page Translation,” on page 139.
•
The task-state segment is described in Section 12.2.4 “Legacy Task-State Segment,” on page 372
and Section 12.2.5 “64-Bit Task State Segment,” on page 376.
Not all processor implementations are required to support all possible features. The last section in this 
chapter addresses processor-feature identification. System software uses the capabilities described in 
that section to determine which features are supported so that the appropriate service routines are 
loaded.
3.1
System-Control Registers
The registers that control the AMD64 architecture operating environment include:
•
CR0—Provides operating-mode controls and some processor-feature controls.
•
CR2—This register is used by the page-translation mechanism. It is loaded by the processor with
the page-fault virtual address when a page-fault exception occurs.
•
CR3—This register is also used by the page-translation mechanism. It contains the base address of
the highest-level page-translation table, and also contains cache controls for the specified table.
•
CR4—This register contains additional controls for various operating-mode features.
•
CR8—This new register, accessible in 64-bit mode using the REX prefix, is introduced by the
AMD64 architecture. CR8 is used to prioritize external interrupts and is referred to as the task-
priority register (TPR).
•
RFLAGS—This register contains processor-status and processor-control fields. The status and
control fields are used primarily in the management of virtual-8086 mode, hardware multitasking,
and interrupts. 
[AMD Public Use]
