206
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
The cache is accessed using the physical address of the data or instruction being referenced. To access 
data within a cache line, the physical address is used to select the set, way, and byte from the cache. 
This is accomplished by dividing the physical address into the following three fields:
•
Index—The index field selects the cache set (row) to be examined for a hit. All cache lines within
the set (one from each way) are selected by the index field.
•
Tag—The tag field is used to select a specific cache line from the cache set. The physical-address
tag field is compared with each cache-line tag in the set. If a match is found, a cache hit is signaled,
and the appropriate cache line is selected from the set. If a match is not found, a cache miss is
signaled.
•
Offset—The offset field points to the first byte in the cache line corresponding to the memory
reference. The referenced data or instruction value is read from (or written to, in the case of
memory writes) the selected cache line starting at the location selected by the offset field.
In Figure 7-3 on page 205, the physical-address index field is shown selecting Set 2 from the cache. 
The tag entry for each cache line in the set is compared with the physical-address tag field. The tag 
entry for Way 1 matches the physical-address tag field, so the cache-line data for Set 2, Way 1 is 
selected using the n:1 multiplexer. Finally, the physical-address offset field is used to point to the first 
byte of the referenced data (or instruction) in the selected cache line.
Cache lines can contain other information in addition to the data and tags, as shown in Figure 7-3 on 
page 205. MOESI state and the state bits associated with the cache-replacement algorithm are typical 
pieces of information kept with the cache line. Instruction caches can also contain pre-decode or 
branch-prediction information. The type of information stored with the cache line is implementation 
dependent.
Self-Modifying Code.  Software that stores into its own pending instruction stream with the intent of 
then executing the modified instructions is classified as self-modifying code. To support self-
modifying code, AMD64 processors will flush any lines from the instruction cache that such stores hit, 
and will additionally check whether an instruction being modified is already in decode or execution 
behind the store instruction. If so, it will flush the pipeline and restart instruction fetch to acquire and 
re-decode the updated instruction bytes. No special action is needed by software for such updates to be 
immediately recognized. As with cache coherency, the check for instructions that are in flight is 
performed using physical addresses to avoid aliasing issues that could arise with virtual (linear) 
addresses.
When the modified bytes are in cacheable memory, the data cache may retain a copy of the modified 
cache line in a shared state, and the instruction cache refill may be satisfied from any suitable place in 
the memory hierarchy in a model-dependent manner that maintains cache coherency.
Cross-Modifying Code.  Software that stores into the active instruction stream of another executing 
thread with the intent that the other thread subsequently execute the modified instruction stream is 
classified as cross-modifying code. There are two approaches to consider: asynchronous modification 
and synchronous modification.
[AMD Public Use]
