Segmented Virtual Memory
81
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Figure 4-5.
FS and GS Segment-Register Format—64-Bit Mode
In 64-bit mode, FS-segment and GS-segment overrides are not checked for limit or attributes. Instead, 
the processor checks that all virtual-address references are in canonical form.
Segment register-load instructions (MOV to Sreg and POP Sreg) load only a 32-bit base-address value 
into the hidden portion of the FS and GS segment registers. The base-address bits above the low 32 bits 
are cleared to 0 as a result of a segment-register load. When a null selector is loaded into FS or GS, the 
contents of the corresponding hidden descriptor register are not altered.
There are two methods to update the contents of the FS.base and GS.base hidden descriptor fields. The 
first is available exclusively to privileged software (CPL = 0). The FS.base and GS.base hidden 
descriptor-register fields are mapped to MSRs. Privileged software can load a 64-bit base address in 
canonical form into FS.base or GS.base using a single WRMSR instruction. The FS.base MSR address 
is C000_0100h while the GS.base MSR address is C000_0101h. 
The second method of updating the FS and GS base fields is available to software running at any 
privilege level (when supported by the implementation and enabled by setting CR4[FSGSBASE]). 
The WRFSBASE and WRGSBASE instructions copy the contents of a GPR to the FS.base and 
GS.base fields respectively. When the operand size is 32 bits, the upper doubleword of the base is 
cleared. WRFSBASE and WRGSBASE are only supported in 64-bit mode.
The addresses written into the expanded FS.base and GS.base registers must be in canonical form. Any 
instruction that attempts to write a non-canonical address to these registers causes a general-protection 
exception (#GP) to occur.
When in compatibility mode, the FS and GS overrides operate as defined by the legacy x86 
architecture regardless of the value loaded into the high 32 bits of the hidden descriptor-register base-
address field. Compatibility mode ignores the high 32 bits when calculating an effective address.
Hidden from Software and Unused in 64-bit Mode
513-267.eps
64-Bit Segment Base Address
32-Bit  Segment Limit
Segment Attributes
Selector
[AMD Public Use]
