158
Page Translation and Protection
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
is possible for a large number of addresses to be translated by a small number of page translations. This 
high degree of locality means that almost all translations are performed using the on-chip TLBs.
System software is responsible for managing the TLBs when updates are made to the linear-to-
physical mapping of addresses. A change to any paging data-structure entry is not automatically 
reflected in the TLB, and hardware snooping of TLBs during memory-reference cycles is not 
performed. Software must invalidate the TLB entry of a modified translation-table entry so that the 
change is reflected in subsequent address translations. TLB invalidation is described in “TLB 
Management” on page 159. Only privileged software running at CPL=0 can manage the TLBs. 
5.5.1  Process Context Identifier
The Process Context Identifier (PCID) feature allows a logical processor to cache TLB mappings 
concurrently for multiple virtual address spaces. When enabled (by setting CR4.PCIDE=1), the 
processor associates the current 12-bit PCID with each TLB mapping it creates. Only entries matching 
the current PCID are used when performing address translations. In this way, the processor may retain 
cached TLB mappings for multiple contexts.
The current PCID is the value in CR3[11:0]. When PCIDs are enabled the system software can store 
12-bit Process Context Identifiers in CR3 for different address spaces. Subsequently, when system 
software switches address spaces (by writing the page table base pointer in CR3[62:12]), the processor 
may use TLB mappings previously stored for that address space and PCID, providing that bit 63 of the 
source operand is set to 1. If bit 63 is set to 0, the legacy behavior of a move to CR3 is maintained, 
invalidating TLB entries but only non-global entries for the specified PCID. Note that this bit is not 
stored in the CR3 register itself. PCID-tagged TLB contents may also be managed using the INVPCID 
instruction; see the INVPCID description in volume 3 for details. A MOV to CR4 that clears 
CR4.PCIDE causes all cached entries in the TLB for the logical processor to be invalidated. When 
PCIDs are not enabled (CR4.PCIDE=0) the current PCID is always zero and all TLB mappings are 
associated with PCID=0.
 Attempting to set CR4.PCIDE with a MOV to CR4 if EFER.LMA = 0 or CR3[11:0] <> 0 causes a 
#GP exception. Attempting to clear CR0.PG with a MOV to CR0 if CR4.PCIDE is set also causes a 
#GP exception. The presence of PCID functionality is indicated by CPUID Function 1, 
ECX[PCID]=1.
5.5.2  Global Pages
The processor invalidates the TLB whenever CR3 is loaded either explicitly or implicitly. After the 
TLB is invalidated, subsequent address references can consume many clock cycles until their 
translations are cached as new entries in the TLB. Invalidation of TLB entries for frequently-used or 
critical pages can be avoided by specifying the translations for those pages as global. TLB entries for 
global pages are not invalidated as a result of a CR3 load. Global pages are invalidated using the 
INVLPG instruction.
Global-page extensions are controlled by setting and clearing the PGE bit in CR4 (bit 7). When 
CR4.PGE is set to 1, global-page extensions are enabled. When CR4.PGE is cleared to 0, global-page 
[AMD Public Use]
