System Resources
49
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
See Section 5.2.3 “PAE Paging,” on page 135 for more information on physical-address extensions.
Machine-Check Enable (MCE).  Bit 6. Setting MCE to 1 enables the machine-check exception 
mechanism. Clearing this bit to 0 disables the mechanism. When enabled, a machine-check exception 
(#MC) occurs when an uncorrectable machine-check error is encountered. 
Regardless of whether machine-check exceptions are enabled, the processor records enabled-errors 
when they occur. Error-reporting is performed by the machine-check error-reporting register banks. 
Each bank includes a control register for enabling error reporting and a status register for capturing 
errors. Correctable machine-check errors are also reported, but they do not cause a machine-check 
exception.
See Chapter 9, “Machine Check Architecture,” for a description of the machine-check mechanism, the 
registers used, and the types of errors captured by the mechanism.
Page-Global Enable (PGE).  Bit 7. When page translation is enabled, system-software performance 
can often be improved by making some page translations global to all tasks and procedures. Setting 
PGE to 1 enables the global-page mechanism. Clearing this bit to 0 disables the mechanism. 
When PGE is enabled, system software can set the global-page (G) bit in the lowest level of the page-
translation hierarchy to 1, indicating that the page translation is global. Page translations marked as 
global are not invalidated in the TLB when the page-translation-table base address (CR3) is updated. 
When the G bit is cleared, the page translation is not global. All supported physical-page sizes also 
support the global-page mechanism. See Section 5.5.2 “Global Pages,” on page 158 for information 
on using the global-page mechanism.
Performance-Monitoring Counter Enable (PCE).  Bit 8. Setting PCE to 1 allows software running 
at any privilege level to use the RDPMC instruction. Software uses the RDPMC instruction to read the 
performance-monitoring counter MSRs, *PerfCtrn. Clearing PCE to 0 allows only the most-privileged 
software (CPL=0) to use the RDPMC instruction.
FXSAVE/FXRSTOR Support (OSFXSR).  Bit 9. System software must set the OSFXSR bit to 1 to 
enable use of the legacy SSE instructions. When this bit is set to 1, it also indicates that system 
software uses the FXSAVE and FXRSTOR instructions to save and restore the processor state for the 
x87, 64-bit media, and 128-bit media instructions.
Clearing the OSFXSR bit to 0 indicates that legacy SSE instructions cannot be used. Attempts to use 
those instructions while this bit is clear result in an invalid-opcode exception (#UD). Software can 
continue to use the FXSAVE/FXRSTOR instructions for saving and restoring the processor state for 
the x87 and 64-bit media instructions.
Unmasked Exception Support (OSXMMEXCPT).  Bit 10. System software must set the 
OSXMMEXCPT bit to 1 when it supports the SIMD floating-point exception (#XF) for handling of 
unmasked 256-bit and 128-bit media floating-point errors. Clearing the OSXMMEXCPT bit to 0 
indicates the #XF handler is not supported. When OSXMMEXCPT=0, unmasked 128-bit media 
floating-point exceptions cause an invalid-opcode exception (#UD). See “SIMD Floating-Point 
Exception Causes” in Volume 1 for more information on unmasked SSE floating-point exceptions.
[AMD Public Use]
