Exceptions and Interrupts
267
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
8.5.2  External Interrupt Priorities
The AMD64 architecture allows software to define up to 15 external interrupt-priority classes. Priority 
classes are numbered from 1 to 15, with priority-class 1 being the lowest and priority-class 15 the 
highest. The organization of these priority classes is implementation dependent. A typical method is to 
use the upper four bits of the interrupt vector number to define the priority. Thus, interrupt vector 53h 
has a priority of 5 and interrupt vector 37h has a priority of 3.
A new control register (CR8) is introduced by the AMD64 architecture for managing priority classes. 
This register, called the task-priority register (TPR), uses its four low-order bits to specify a task 
priority. The remaining 60 bits are reserved and must be written with zeros. Figure 8-5 shows the 
format of the TPR.
The TPR is available only in 64-bit mode.
Figure 8-5.
Task Priority Register (CR8)
System software can use the TPR register to temporarily block low-priority interrupts from 
interrupting a high-priority task. This is accomplished by loading TPR with a value corresponding to 
the highest-priority interrupt that is to be blocked. For example, loading TPR with a value of 9 (1001b) 
blocks all interrupts with a priority class of 9 or less, while allowing all interrupts with a priority class 
of 10 or more to be recognized. Loading TPR with 0 enables all external interrupts. Loading TPR with 
15 (1111b) disables all external interrupts. The TPR is cleared to 0 on reset. 
System software reads and writes the TPR using a MOV CR8 instruction. The MOV CR8 instruction 
requires a privilege level of 0. Programs running at any other privilege level cannot read or write the 
TPR, and an attempt to do so results in a general-protection exception (#GP).
A serializing instruction is not required after loading the TPR, because a new priority level is 
established when the MOV instruction completes execution. For example, assume two sequential TPR 
loads are performed, in which a low value is first loaded into TPR and immediately followed by a load 
3
Denormal Operand
#D
4
Numeric Overflow
#O
Numeric Underflow
#U
5
(Low)
Precision
#P
63
4
3
0
Reserved, MBZ
Task Priority 
(TPR)
Table 8-10.
Simultaneous Floating-Point Exception Priorities (continued)
Exception 
Priority
Exception Condition
[AMD Public Use]
