238
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
The TOP_MEM register is enabled by setting the MtrrVarDramEn bit in the SYSCFG MSR (bit 20) to 
1 (one). The TOP_MEM2 register is enabled by setting the MtrrTom2En bit in the SYSCFG MSR (bit 
21) to 1 (one). The registers are disabled when their respective enable bits are cleared to 0. When the 
top-of-memory registers are disabled, memory accesses default to memory-mapped I/O space. 
Note that a given processor may implement fewer than the architecturally-defined number of physical 
address bits.
7.10
Secure Memory Encryption
Software running in non-virtualized (native) mode can utilize the Secure Memory Encryption (SME) 
feature to mark individual pages of memory as encrypted through the page tables. A page of memory 
marked encrypted will be automatically decrypted when read by software and automatically encrypted 
when written to DRAM. SME may therefore be used to protect the contents of DRAM from physical 
attacks on the system.
All memory encrypted using SME is encrypted with the same AES key which is created randomly 
each time a system is booted. The memory encryption key cannot be read or modified by software.
For details on using memory encryption in virtualized environments, please see Section 15.34, 
“Secure Encrypted Virtualization,” on page 588.
7.10.1  Determining Support for Secure Memory Encryption
Support for memory encryption features is reported in CPUID Fn8000_001F[EAX]. Bit 0 indicates 
support for Secure Memory Encryption. When this feature is present, CPUID Fn8000_001F[EBX] 
supplies additional information regarding the use of memory encryption such as which page table bit is 
used to mark pages as encrypted. 
Additionally, in some implementations, the physical address size of the processor may be reduced 
when memory encryption features are enabled, for example from 48 to 43 bits. In this case the upper 
physical address bits are treated as reserved when the feature is enabled except where otherwise 
indicated. When memory encryption is supported in an implementation, CPUID Fn8000_001F[EBX] 
reports any physical address size reduction present. Bits reserved in this mode are treated the same as 
other page table reserved bits, and will generate a page fault if found to be non-zero when used for 
address translation.
Complete CPUID details for encrypted memory features can be found in Volume 3, section E.4.17.
7.10.2  Enabling Memory Encryption Extensions
Prior to using SME, memory encryption features must be enabled by setting SYSCFG MSR bit 23 
(MemEncryptionModEn) to 1. In implementations where the physical address size of the processor is 
reduced when memory encryption features are enabled, software must ensure it is executing from 
addresses where these upper physical address bits are 0 prior to setting 
SYSCFG[MemEncryptionModEn].   Memory encryption is then further controlled via the page tables.
[AMD Public Use]
