Secure Virtual Machine
595
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
15.35
Encrypted State (SEV-ES)
Encrypted VMs that use the SEV feature described in Section 15.34 may additionally use the SEV-ES 
feature to protect guest register state from the hypervisor. An SEV-ES VM's CPU register state is 
encrypted during world switches and cannot be directly accessed or modified by the hypervisor. This is 
designed to protect against attacks such as exfiltration (unauthorized reading of VM state) and control 
flow attacks (modifying VM state) including rollback attacks (restoring an earlier VM register state).
SEV-ES includes architectural support for notifying a VM's operating system when certain types of 
world switches are about to occur, allowing the VM to selectively share information with the 
hypervisor when needed for functionality.
15.35.1  Determining Support for SEV-ES
SEV-ES support can be determined by reading CPUID Fn8000_001F[EAX] as described in 
Section 15.34.1. Bit 3 of EAX indicates support for SEV-ES.
15.35.2  Enabling SEV-ES
SEV-ES may be enabled on a per-VM basis by setting bit 2 in offset 90h of the VMCB. When enabling 
SEV-ES, the hypervisor must also enable SEV (offset 90h bit 1) and LBR virtualization (offset B8h bit 
0). Additionally, all other programming requirements related to enabling SEV (see Section 15.34.3) 
must be satisfied when running an SEV-ES guest.
On some systems, there is a limitation on which ASID values can be used on SEV guests that are run 
with SEV-ES disabled. While SEV-ES may be enabled on any valid SEV ASID (as defined by CPUID 
Fn8000_001F[ECX]), there are restrictions on which ASIDs may be used for SEV guests with SEV-
ES disabled. CPUID Fn8000_001F[EDX] indicates the minimum ASID value that must be used for an 
SEV-enabled, SEV-ES-disabled guest. For example, if CPUID Fn8000_001F[EDX] returns the value 
5, then any VMs which use ASIDs 1-4 and which enable SEV must also enable SEV-ES.
Note that prior to running an SEV-ES VM for the first time, the hypervisor must coordinate with the 
AMD Secure Processor to create the initial encrypted state image for the guest VM.
15.35.3  SEV-ES Overview
The SEV-ES architecture is designed to protect guest VM register state by default, and only allow the 
guest VM itself to grant selective access as required. This additional security protection functionality 
is accomplished in two ways. First, all VM register state is saved and encrypted when a VM exit event 
(#VMEXIT) occurs. This state is decrypted and restored on a VMRUN only. Second, certain types of 
#VMEXIT events cause a new exception to be taken within the guest VM. This new exception (#VC, 
see Section 15.35.5) indicates that the guest VM performed some action which requires hypervisor 
involvement, an example of which would be an I/O access by the VM. The guest #VC handler is 
responsible for determining what register state is necessary to expose to the hypervisor for the purpose 
of emulating this operation. The #VC handler also inspects the returned values from the hypervisor 
and updates the guest state if the output is deemed acceptable.
[AMD Public Use]
