Software Debug and Performance Resources
477
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Saving State at SMM Entry and Exit
SMM entry and exit must save and restore LWP state when the processor is going to change power 
state. SMM must use XSAVE/XRSTOR and must also save and restore LWP_CFG. Since LWP is ring 
3 only and is inactive in System Management Mode, its state should not need to be saved and restored 
otherwise.
Notes on Restoring LWP State
The LWPCB may not be in memory at all times. Therefore, the LWP hardware does not attempt to 
access it while still in the OS kernel/VMM/SMM, since that access might fault. Some LWP state is 
restored once the processor is in ring 3 and can take a #PF exception without crashing. This usually 
happens the next time LWP needs to store an event record into the ring buffer.
13.4.8.3  LWPCB Access
Several LWPCB fields are written asynchronously by the LWP hardware and by the user software. 
This section discusses techniques for reducing the associated memory traffic. This is interesting to 
software because it influences what state is kept internally in LWP, and it explains the protocol 
between the hardware filling the event ring buffer and the software emptying it.
The hardware keeps an internal copy of the event ring buffer head pointer. It need not flush the head 
pointer to the LWPCB every time it stores an event record. The flush can be done periodically or it can 
be deferred until a threshold or buffer full condition happens or until the application executes 
LLWPCB or SLWPCB. Exceeding the buffer threshold always forces the head pointer to memory so 
that the interrupt handler emptying the ring buffer sees the threshold condition.
The hardware may keep an internal copy of the event ring buffer tail pointer. It need not read the 
software-maintained tail pointer unless it detects a threshold or buffer full condition. At that point, it 
rereads the tail pointer to see if software has emptied some records from the ring buffer. If so, it 
recomputes the condition and acts accordingly. This implies that software polling the ring buffer 
should begin processing event records when it detects a threshold condition itself. To avoid a race 
condition with software, the hardware rereads the tail pointer every time it stores an event record while 
the threshold condition appears to be true. (An implementation can relax this to “every nth time” for 
some small value of n.) It also rereads it whenever the ring buffer appears to be full.
The interval values used to reset the counters can be cached in the hardware when the LLWPCB 
instruction is executed, or they can be read from the LWPCB each time the counter overflows. 
The ring buffer base and size are cached in the hardware.
The MissedEvents value is a counter for an exceptional condition and is kept in memory.
The cached LWP state is refreshed from the LWPCB when LWP is enabled either explicitly via 
LLWPCB or implicitly when needed in ring 3 after LWP state is restored via XRSTOR.
Caching implies that software cannot reliably change sampling intervals or other cached state by 
modifying the LWPCB. The change might not be noticed by the LWP hardware. On the other hand, 
changing state in the LWPCB while LWP is running may change the operation at an unpredictable 
[AMD Public Use]
