192
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
In this example, the MFENCE instruction ensures that any buffered stores are globally visible
before the loads are allowed to execute, so the result r1 = 1, r2 = 0, r3 = 1 and r4 = 0 will not occur.
7.3
Memory Coherency and Protocol
Implementations that support caching support a cache-coherency protocol for maintaining coherency 
between main memory and the caches. The cache-coherency protocol is also used to maintain 
coherency in a multiprocessor or multi-mastering system. All processors and all external bus-
mastering devices participate in this cache-coherency protocol. In this section, the word processor 
encompasses any bus-mastering devices as well as other processors that participate in this cache-
coherency protocol.
The cache-coherency protocol supported by the AMD64 architecture is the MOESDIF (modified, 
owned, exclusive, shared, dirty, invalid, forward) protocol. The states of the MOESDIF protocol are:
•
Invalid - A cache line in the Invalid state does not hold a valid copy of the data. Valid copies of the
data can be either in main memory or another processor cache.
•
Exclusive - A cache line in the Exclusive state holds the most recent, correct copy of the data. The
copy in main memory is also the most recent, correct copy of the data. No other processor holds a
copy of the data. 
•
Shared - A cache line in the Shared state holds the most recent, correct copy of the data. Other
processors in the system may hold copies of the data in the Shared state and one other processor
may hold a copy of the data in the Owned or Forward state. If no other processor holds it in the
Owned state, then the copy in main memory is also the most recent.
•
Forward - A cache line in the Forward state holds the most recent, correct copy of the data. Other
processors in the system may hold copies of the data in the Shared state, as well. The Forward state
acts as a performance hint indicating which cache should respond with data when there is a broad
casted probe.
•
Modified - A cache line in the Modified state holds the most recent, correct copy of the data. The
copy in main memory is stale (incorrect), and no other processor holds a copy. The data has usually
been changed after it was received into the cache.
•
Dirty - A cache line in the Dirty state holds the most recent, correct copy of the data. The copy in
main memory is stale (incorrect), and no other processor holds a copy. The data has usually not
been changed after it was received into the cache.
•
Owned - A cache line in the Owned state holds the most recent, correct copy of the data. The
Owned state is similar to the Shared state in that other processors can hold a copy of the most
recent, correct data. Unlike the Shared state, however, the copy in main memory can be stale
(incorrect). Only one processor can hold the data in the Owned state. Any other processors that
hold the data are in the Shared state.
Load r1 A
Load r3 B
Load r2 B
Load r4 A
Processor 0
Processor 1
[AMD Public Use]
