126
Page Translation and Protection
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
5
Page Translation and Protection
The x86 page-translation mechanism (or simply paging mechanism) enables system software to create 
separate address spaces for each process or application. These address spaces are known as virtual-
address spaces. System software uses the paging mechanism to selectively map individual pages of 
physical memory into the virtual-address space using a set of hierarchical address-translation tables 
known collectively as page tables.
The paging mechanism and the page tables are used to provide each process with its own private 
region of physical memory for storing its code and data. Processes can be protected from each other by 
isolating them within the virtual-address space. A process cannot access physical memory that is not 
mapped into its virtual-address space by system software.
System software can use the paging mechanism to selectively map physical-memory pages into 
multiple virtual-address spaces. Mapping physical pages in this manner allows them to be shared by 
multiple processes and applications. The physical pages can be configured by the page tables to allow 
read-only access. This prevents applications from altering the pages and ensures their integrity for use 
by all applications. 
Shared mapping is typically used to allow access of shared-library routines by multiple applications. A 
read-only copy of the library routine is mapped to each application virtual-address space, but only a 
single copy of the library routine is present in physical memory. This capability also allows a copy of 
the operating-system kernel and various device drivers to reside within the application address space. 
Applications are provided with efficient access to system services without requiring costly address-
space switches. 
The system-software portion of the address space necessarily includes system-only data areas that 
must be protected from accesses by applications. System software uses the page tables to protect this 
memory by designating the pages as supervisor pages. Such pages are only accessible by system 
software.
When the supervisor mode execution prevention (SMEP) feature is supported and enabled, attempted 
instruction fetches from user-mode accessible pages while in supervisor-mode triggers a page fault 
(#PF). This protects the integrity of system software by preventing the execution of instructions at a 
supervisor privilege level (CPL < 3) when these instructions could have been written or modified by 
user-mode code. 
When the supervisor mode access prevention (SMAP) feature is supported and enabled and 
RFLAGS.AC=0, some attempted explicit data accesses from user-mode accessible pages while in 
supervisor-mode trigger a page fault (#PF). This protects the integrity of system software by 
preventing the use of data at a supervisor privilege level (CPL < 3) that could have been modified by 
user-mode code. Supervisor software that requires access to data which is marked as user-mode 
accessible may temporarily suppress SMAP checks by modifying RFLAGS.AC, such as with the 
CLAC/STAC instructions.
[AMD Public Use]
