Secure Virtual Machine
541
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
15.24
External Access Protection
By securing the virtual address translation mechanism, the VMM can restrict guest CPU accesses to 
memory. However, should the guest have direct access to DMA-capable devices, an additional 
protection mechanism is required. SVM provides multiple protection domains which can restrict 
device access to physical memory on a per-page basis. This is accomplished via control logic in the 
Northbridge’s host bridge which governs any external access port (e.g., PCI or HyperTransportTM 
technology interfaces).
15.24.1  Device IDs and Protection Domains
The Northbridge’s host bridge provides a number of protection domains. Each protection domain has 
associated with it a device exclusion vector (DEV) that specifies the per-page access rights of devices 
in that domain. Devices are identified by a HyperTransportTM bus/unitID (device ID) and the host 
bridge contains a lookup table of fixed size that maps device IDs to a protection domain. 
15.24.2  Device Exclusion Vector (DEV)
A DEV is a contiguous array of bits in physical memory; each bit in the DEV (in little-endian order) 
corresponds to one 4-Kbyte page in physical memory.
The physical address of the base of a DEV must be 4-Kbyte-aligned and stored in one of the 
DEVBASE registers, which are accessed through an indirection mechanism in the DEVCTL PCI 
Configuration Space function block in the host bridge (see “DEV Control and Status Registers” on 
page 545). The DEV protection hardware is not operational until enabled by setting a control bit in the 
DEV Control Register, also in the DEVCTL function block.
The DEV may have to cover part of MMIO space beyond the DRAM. Especially in 64-bit systems, the 
operating system should map MMIO space starting immediately after the DRAM area and building 
up, as opposed to starting down from the maximum physical address.
Host Bridge and Processor DEV Caching.  For improved performance, the host bridge may cache 
portions of the DEV. Any such cached information can be invalidated by setting the DEV_FLUSH flag 
in the DEV control register to 1. Software must set this flag after modifying DEV contents to ensure 
that the protection logic uses the updated values. The host bridge automatically clears this flag when 
the flush operation completes. After setting this flag, software should monitor it until it has cleared, in 
order to synchronize DEV updates with subsequent activity. 
By default, the host bridge probes the processor caches for the latest data when it accesses the DEV in 
DRAM. However, it is possible to disable probing by means of the DEV_CR register (“DEV_CR 
Register” on page 545); this is recommended in the case of unified memory architecture (UMA) 
graphics systems. If cache probing is disabled, host bridge reads of the DEV will not check processor 
caches for more recent copies. This requires software on the CPU to map the memory containing the 
DEV as uncacheable (UC) or write-through (WT). Alternatively, software must perform a CLFLUSH 
before it can expect a change to the DEV to be visible by the Northbridge (and before software flushes 
the DEV cache in the host controller).
[AMD Public Use]
