Hardware Performance Monitoring and Control
667
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Figure 17-4.
Core Performance Boost (MSR C001_0015h)
Core Performance Boost Disable (CpbDis)—Bit 25. Specifies whether core performance boost is 
enabled or disabled. 0 = Enabled. 1 = Disabled.
17.3
Determining Processor Effective Frequency
The Max Performance Frequency Clock Count (MPERF) and the Actual Performance Frequency 
Clock Count (APERF) registers constitute the effective frequency interface. This interface provides a 
means for software to calculate an average, or effective, frequency of a core over a known window of 
time. This provides software a measure of actual performance rather than forcing software to assume 
that the current frequency of the core is the frequency of the last P-state requested. 
To calculate an effective clock frequency of a given processor core, on that processor do the following:
1. Read both MPERF and APERF and save their initial values.
-
MPERF_INIT = MPERF and APERF_INIT = APERF
2. Wait an appropriate amount of time.
3. Read both MPERF and APERF again.
4. Effective frequency = {(APERF − APERF_INIT) / (MPERF − MPERF_INIT)} * P0 frequency.
The amount of time that elapses between steps 1 and 3 is determined by software. This allows software 
to define the time window over which the processor frequency is averaged. Software should disable 
interrupts or any other events that may occur between the read of MPERF and the read of APERF in 
step 1 and again when the two MSRs are read in step 3. Step 4 provides the equation for the calculation 
of the effective frequency value. Software determines the P0 frequency using ACPI defined data 
structures.
The effective frequency interface only counts clock cycles while the core is in the ACPI defined C0 
state.
Only the ratio between MPERF and APERF is architecturally defined. Software should not assume 
any specific definition of the MPERF or APERF registers. If an overflow of either the MPERF or 
63
25
0
Reserved
CPBDis
Reserved
Bits
Mnemonic
Description
Access type
63:26
Reserved
MBZ
25
CPBDis
Core Performance Boost Disable
R/W
24:0
Reserved
MBZ
[AMD Public Use]
