178
System Instructions
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
CLTS Instruction.  The clear task-switched bit instruction (CLTS) clears CR0.TS to 0. The CR0.TS 
bit is set to 1 by the processor every time a task switch takes place. The bit is useful to system software 
in determining when the x87 and multimedia register state should be saved or restored. See “Task 
Switched (TS) Bit” on page 43 for more information on using CR0.TS to manage x87-instruction 
state. The CLTS instruction is privileged and causes a #GP to occur if non-privileged software 
attempts to execute it.
6.2.3  Accessing the RFLAGS Register
The RFLAGS register contains both application and system bits. This section describes the 
instructions used to read and write system bits. Descriptions of instruction effects on application flags 
can be found in “Flags Register” in Volume 1 and “Instruction Effects on rFLAGS” in Volume 3.
POPF and PUSHF Instructions.  The pop and push rFLAGS instructions are used for moving data 
between the rFLAGS register and the stack. They are not strictly system instructions, but their 
behavior is mode-dependent. 
CLI and STI Instructions.  The clear interrupt (CLI) and set interrupt (STI) instructions modify only 
the RFLAGS.IF bit or RFLAGS.VIF bit. Clearing RFLAGS.IF to 0 causes the processor to ignore 
maskable interrupts. Setting RFLAGS.IF to 1 causes the processor to allow maskable interrupts.
See “Virtual Interrupts” on page 288 for more information on the operation of these instructions when 
virtual-8086 mode extensions are enabled (CR4.VME=1).
CLAC and STAC Instructions.  The clear alignment check flag (CLAC) and set alignment check flag 
(STAC) instructions modify only the RFLAGS.AC bit. 
6.2.4  Accessing Debug Registers
The MOV DRn instructions are used to copy data between the debug registers and the general-purpose 
registers. These instructions are privileged and cause a general-protection exception (#GP) if non-
privileged software attempts to execute them. See “Debug Registers” on page 392 for a detailed 
description of the debug registers.
6.2.5  Accessing Model-Specific Registers
RDMSR and WRMSR Instructions.  The read/write model-specific register instructions (RDMSR 
and WRMSR) can be used by privileged software to access the 64-bit MSRs. See “Model-Specific 
Registers (MSRs)” on page 59 for details about the MSRs. 
RDPMC Instruction.  The read performance-monitoring counter instruction, RDPMC, is used to read 
the model-specific performance-monitoring counter registers.
RDTSC Instruction.  The read time-stamp counter instruction, RDTSC, is used to read the model-
specific time-stamp counter (TSC) register. 
[AMD Public Use]
