256
Exceptions and Interrupts
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
8.2.15  #PF—Page-Fault Exception (Vector 14)
A #PF exception can occur during a memory access in any of the following situations:
•
A page-translation-table entry or physical page involved in translating the memory access is not
present in physical memory. This is indicated by a cleared present bit (P=0) in the translation-table
entry.
•
An attempt is made by the processor to load the instruction TLB with a translation for a non-
executable page.
•
The memory access fails the paging-protection checks (user/supervisor, read/write, or both).
•
A reserved bit in one of the page-translation-table entries is set to 1. A #PF occurs for this reason
only when CR4.PSE=1 or CR4.PAE=1.
•
A data access to a user-mode address caused a protection key violation.
#PF cannot be disabled.
CR2 Register.  The virtual (linear) address that caused the #PF is stored in the CR2 register. The 
legacy CR2 register is 32 bits long. The CR2 register in the AMD64 architecture is 64 bits long, as 
shown in Figure 8-1 on page 257. In AMD64 implementations, when either software or a page fault 
causes a write to the CR2 register, only the low-order 32 bits of CR2 are used in legacy mode; the 
processor clears the high-order 32 bits.
Any segment limit-check or non-canonical address violation (except when using the SS register).
0
Accessing memory using a null segment register.
Writing memory using a read-only segment register.
Attempting to execute an SSE instruction specifying an unaligned memory operand.
Attempting to execute code that is past the CS segment limit or at a non-canonical RIP.
Executing a privileged instruction while CPL is > 0.
Executing an instruction that is more than 15 bytes long.
Writing a 1 into any register field that is reserved, must be zero (MBZ).
Using WRMSR to write a read-only MSR.
Using WRMSR to write a non-canonical value into an MSR that must be canonical.
Using WRMSR to set an invalid type encoding in an MTRR or the PAT MSR.
0
Enabling paging while protected mode is disabled.
Setting CR0.NW=1 while CR0.CD=0.
Any long-mode consistency-check violation.
Table 8-6.
General-Protection Exception Conditions (continued)
Error Condition
Error Code
[AMD Public Use]
