180
System Instructions
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
LLDT and LTR Instructions.  The load LDTR (LLDT) and load TR (LTR) instructions load a system-
segment descriptor from the GDT into the LDTR and TR segment-descriptor registers (hidden 
portion), respectively.
SGDT and SIDT Instructions.  The store GDTR (SGDT) and store IDTR (SIDT) instructions reverse 
the operation of the LGDT and LIDT instructions. SGDT and SIDT store a pseudo-descriptor from the 
GDTR or IDTR register into memory. 
SLDT and STR Instructions.  In all modes, the store LDTR (SLDT) and store TR (STR) instructions 
store the LDT or task selector from the visible portion of the LDTR or TR register into a general-
purpose register or memory, respectively. The hidden portion of the LDTR or TR register is not stored.
6.4
Protection Checking
Several instructions are provided to allow software to determine the outcome of a protection check 
before performing a memory access that could result in a protection violation. By performing the 
checks before a memory access, software can avoid violations that result in a general-protection 
exception (#GP). 
6.4.1  Checking Access Rights
LAR Instruction.  The load access-rights (LAR) instruction can be used to determine if access to a 
segment is allowed, based on privilege checks and type checks. The LAR instruction uses a segment-
selector in the source operand to reference a descriptor in the GDT or LDT. LAR performs a set of 
access-rights checks and, if successful, loads the segment-descriptor access rights into the destination 
register. Software can further examine the access-rights bits to determine if access into the segment is 
allowed.
6.4.2  Checking Segment Limits
LSL Instruction.  The load segment-limit (LSL) instruction uses a segment-selector in the source 
operand to reference a descriptor in the GDT or LDT. LSL performs a set of preliminary access-rights 
checks and, if successful, loads the segment-descriptor limit field into the destination register. 
Software can use the limit value in comparisons with pointer offsets to prevent segment limit 
violations.
6.4.3  Checking Read/Write Rights
VERR and VERW Instructions.  The verify read-rights (VERR) and verify write-rights (VERW) can 
be used to determine if a target code or data segment (not a system segment) can be read or written 
from the current privilege level (CPL). The source operand for these instructions is a pointer to the 
segment selector to be tested. If the tested segment (code or data) is readable from the current CPL, the 
VERR instruction sets RFLAGS.ZF to 1; otherwise, it is cleared to zero. Likewise, if the tested data 
segment is writable, the VERW instruction sets the RFLAGS.ZF to 1. A code segment cannot be tested 
for writability.
[AMD Public Use]
