Memory System
195
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
1. Software invalidates the TLB entry. The tables that translate virtual-page A to physical-page M
are now held only in main memory. They are not cached by the TLB.
2. Software changes the page-table entry for virtual-page A in main memory to point to physical-
page N rather than physical-page M.
3. Software accesses data in virtual-page A. 
During Step 3, software expects the processor to access the data from physical-page N. However, it is 
possible for the processor to prefetch the data from physical-page M before the page table for virtual-
page A is updated in Step 2. This is because the physical-memory references for the page tables are 
different than the physical-memory references for the data. Because the physical-memory references 
are different, the processor does not recognize them as requiring coherency checking and believes it is 
safe to prefetch the data from virtual-page A, which is translated into a read from physical page M. 
Similar behavior can occur when instructions are prefetched from beyond the page table update 
instruction.
To prevent this problem, software must use an INVLPG or MOV CR3 instruction immediately after 
the page-table update to ensure that subsequent instruction fetches and data accesses use the correct 
virtual-page-to-physical-page translation. It is not necessary to perform a TLB invalidation operation 
preceding the table update.
7.3.2  Access Atomicity 
Cacheable, naturally-aligned single loads or stores of up to a quadword are atomic on any processor 
model, as are misaligned loads or stores of less than a quadword that are contained entirely within a 
naturally-aligned quadword. Misaligned load or store accesses typically incur a small latency penalty. 
Model-specific relaxations of this quadword atomicity boundary, with respect to this latency penalty, 
may be found in a given processor's Software Optimization Guide. 
Misaligned accesses can be subject to interleaved accesses from other processors or cache-coherent 
devices which can result in unintended behavior. Atomicity for misaligned accesses can be achieved 
where necessary by using the XCHG instruction or any suitable LOCK-prefixed instruction. 
Processors that report CPUID Fn0000_0001_ECX[AVX](bit 28) = 1 extend the atomicity for 
cacheable, naturally-aligned single loads or stores from a quadword to a double quadword. 
7.3.3  Cacheable Locks and Bus Locks
The processor guarantees access atomicity for locked read-modify-write operations. WB memory 
type, aligned locked read-modify-write (RMW) instructions are referred to as "cacheable locks". 
Cacheable locks are handled within a single processor and incur minimal or no performance penalty.  
Non-WB and misaligned locked RMW instructions are referred to as "bus locks" and require system-
wide synchronization among all processors to guarantee atomicity.  Bus locks may incur significant 
performance penalties for all processors in the system when any processor performs a non-WB or 
misaligned locked RMW instruction.
[AMD Public Use]
