Shadow Stacks
689
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
In this example (Figure 18-6 “RSTORSSP and SAVEPREVSSP Operation” on page 688), 
RSTORSSP is used to switch from shadow stack A to shadow stack B. Subsequently, a 
SAVEPREVSSP instruction is used to save a shadow stack restore token.
Initially, shadow stack A is in-use, and the proposed shadow stack B contains a shadow stack restore 
token at address B - 8. An RSTORSSP instruction is then executed with the operand pointing to the 
restore token.
The RSTORSSP instruction checks the restore token for validity, copies the previous SSP to the token, 
sets bit 1 of the token and sets the new value of SSP to address B. Shadow stack B is now ready for use.
Next, a SAVEPREVSSP instruction is executed to facilitate a later return to shadow stack A (using a 
subsequent RSTORSSP instruction, not shown). The SAVEPREVSSP instruction copies the token to 
address A - 8 and clears token bit 1, then pops the old token from shadow stack B.
For detailed RSTORSSP and SAVEPREVSSP algorithms refer to the instruction descriptions in APM 
Volume 3.
18.11
Shadow Stack Management Instructions
When shadow stacks are enabled, the following instructions are available to software for use in 
managing shadow stacks. Except for RDSSP, attempting to execute these instructions when shadow 
stacks are disabled results in a #UD exception. RDSSP is treated as a NOP when shadow stacks are 
disabled. For more information refer to the detailed instruction descriptions in APM volume 3.
Table 18-2.
Shadow Stack Management Instructions
Mnemonic
Name
Description 
CLRSSBSY
Clear Shadow Stack 
Busy
Validates a shadow stack token and clears its busy bit. This is a 
privileged instruction.
INCSSP
Increment Shadow 
Stack Pointer
Increment SSP by ‘n’ stack frames. Used to pop unneeded items 
from a shadow stack.
RDSSP
Read Shadow Stack 
Pointer
Read the SSP into a GPR. Treated as a NOP if shadow stacks are 
disabled.
RSTORSSP
Restore Shadow 
Stack Pointer
Used to switch shadow stacks. Expects a ‘shadow stack restore 
token’ at the top of the new shadow stack. Upon validating this 
token, sets the token’s busy bit and sets SSP to the top of the new 
shadow stack.
SAVEPREVSSP
Save Previous 
Shadow Stack 
Pointer
Copies a ‘previous SSP token’ from the current shadow stack 
back to the previous stack for later use by an RSTORSSP 
instruction. 
[AMD Public Use]
