Software Debug and Performance Resources
447
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
13.4.2.4  DCache Misses
LWP decrements the event counter each time a load from memory causes a DCache miss whose 
latency exceeds the LwpCacheLatency threshold and/or whose data come from a level of the cache or 
memory hierarchy that is selected for counting. When the counter becomes negative, LWP stores an 
event record with an EventId of 4. 
A misaligned access that causes two misses on a single load decrements the event counter by 1 and, if 
it reports an event, the data are for the lowest address that missed. LWP only counts loads directly 
caused by the instruction. It does not count cache misses that are indirectly due to TLB walks, LDT or 
GDT references, TLB misses, etc. Cache misses caused by LWP itself accessing the LWPCB or the 
event ring buffer are not counted.
Measuring Latency
The x86 architecture allows multiple loads to be outstanding simultaneously. An implementation of 
LWP might not have a full latency counter for every load that is waiting for a cache miss to be 
resolved. Therefore, an implementation may apply any of the following simplifications. Software 
using LWP should be prepared for this.
•
The implementation may round the latency to a multiple of 2^j. This is a small power of 2, and the 
value of j must be 1 to 4. For example, in the rest of this section, assume that j = 4, so 2^j = 16. The 
low 4 bits of latency reported in the event record will be 0. The actual latency counter is 
incremented by 16 every 16 cycles of waiting. The value of j is returned as LwpLatencyRnd (see 
“Detecting LWP Capabilities” on page 452).
•
The implementation may do an approximation when starting to count latency. If counting is in 
increments of 16, the 16 cycles need not start when the load begins to wait. The implementation 
may bump the latency value from 0 to 16 any time during the first 16 cycles of waiting.
•
The implementation may cap total latency to 2^n-16 (where n >= 10). The latency counter is thus a 
saturating counter that stops counting when it reaches its maximum value. For example, if n = 10, 
the latency value will count from 0 to 1008 in steps of 16 and then stop at 1008. (If n = 10, each 
counter is only 6 bits wide.) The value of n is returned as LwpLatencyMax (see “Detecting LWP 
Capabilities” on page 452).
Note that the latency threshold used to filter events is a multiple of 16. This value is used in the 
comparison that decides whether a cache miss event is eligible to be counted.
Reporting the DCache Miss Data Address
The event record for a DCache miss reports the linear address of the data (after adding in the segment 
base address, if any). The way an implementation records the linear address affects the exact event that 
is reported and the amount of time it takes to report a cache miss event. The implementation may 
report the event immediately, report the next eligible event once the counter becomes negative, or 
replay the instruction.
[AMD Public Use]
