System Resources
71
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
•
CPUID Function 8000_0008_EBX[17] (STIBP always on). When set, indicates that it is
recommended that STIBP is only set once during boot and not changed. This eliminates the need
for a WRMSR instruction at the necessary transition points.
•
CPUID Function 8000_0008_EBX[18] (IBRS preferred). When set, indicates that it is
recommended to use the IBRS feature instead of other software mitigations such as retpoline. This
allows software to remove the software mitigation and utilize the more performant IBRS
mechanism.
3.2.10  Hardware Configuration Register (HWCR)
The HWCR register contains control bits that affect the functionality of other features. Some HWCR 
bits are implementation specific, and are described in the BIOS and Kernel Developer’s Guide 
(BKDG) or Processor Programming Reference Manual applicable to your product. Implementation 
specific HWCR bits are not listed below. 
SmmLock.  Bit 0. Enables SMM code lock. When set to 1, SMM code in the ASeg and TSeg memory 
ranges, and the SMM registers, become read-only and SMI interrupts are not intercepted in SVM. See 
Section 15.32 “SMM-Lock,” on page 587 for information on using this feature. 
CpbDis.  Bit 25. Core performance boost disable. When set to 1, core performance boost is disabled. 
See Section 17.2 “Core Performance Boost,” on page 666 for further details on this feature. 
IRPerfEn.  Bit 30. Setting this bit to 1 enables the instructions retired counter. See Section 13.2.1 
“Performance Counter MSRs,” on page 411 for information on using this feature.
SmmPgCfgLock.  Bit 33. Setting this bit to 1 locks the paging configuration while in SMM. See 
Section 10.3.9 “SMM Page Configuration Lock,” on page 339 for information on using this feature. 
CpuidUserDis.  Bit 35. Setting this bit to 1 causes #GP(0) when the CPUID instruction is executed by 
non-privileged software (CPL is > 0) outside SMM. Support for the CPUID User Disable feature is 
indicated by CPUID Fn80000021_EAX[CpuidUserDis]=1.
3.3
Processor Feature Identification
The CPUID instruction provides information about the processor implementation and its capabilities. 
Software operating at any privilege level can execute the CPUID instruction to collect this 
information. Software can utilize this information to optimize performance.
The CPUID instruction supports multiple functions, each providing specific information about the 
processor implementation, including the vendor, model number, revision (stepping), features, cache 
organization, and name. The multifunction approach allows the CPUID instruction to return a detailed 
picture of the processor implementation and its capabilities—more detailed information than could be 
returned by a single function. This flexibility also allows for the addition of new CPUID functions in 
future processor generations.
[AMD Public Use]
