Software Debug and Performance Resources
475
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
return false;
return true;
}
if (! Check(XSAVE.LWPCBAddress, sizeof(LWPCB)) ||
! Check(XSAVE.BufferAddress, XSAVE.BufferSize))
Disable LWP
If any of the address checks fails, LWP is disabled. No fault is generated. A program that executes 
XRSTOR when the CPL ≠ 0 and DS has changed can use SLWPCB to check whether LWP is running.
As with all features that use XSAVE and XRSTOR, if bit 62 of XFEATURE_ENABLED_MASK 
(XCR0) is 0 but bit 62 of XSAVE.HEADER.XSTATE_BV is 1, XRSTOR will cause a #GP(0) 
exception.
13.4.7.5  Processor supplied values
If XRSTOR is executed when bit 62 of XFEATURE_ENABLED_MASK (XCR0) and EDX:EAX are 
both 1, but the corresponding bit in XSAVE.HEADER.XSTATE_BV is 0, it indicates that there is no 
LWP state to restore. In this case, LWP_CBADDR is set to 0 and LWP is disabled. Other processor 
internal state for LWP is set to 0 as necessary to avoid security issues.
13.4.8  Implementation Notes
The following subsections describe other LWP considerations.
13.4.8.1  Multiple Simultaneous Events
Multiple events are possible when an instruction retires. For instance, an indirect jump through a 
pointer in memory can trigger the instructions retired, branches retired, and DCache miss events 
simultaneously. LWP counts all events that apply to the instruction, but might not store event records 
for all events whose event counters became negative. It is implementation dependent as to how many 
event records are stored when multiple event counters simultaneously become negative. If not all 
events cause event records to be stored, the choice of which event(s) to report is implementation 
dependent and may vary from run to run on the same processor.
13.4.8.2  Processor State for Context Switch, SVM, and SMM
Implementations of LWP have internal state to hold information such as the current values of the 
counters for the various events, a pointer into the event ring buffer, and a copy of the tail pointer for 
quick detection of threshold and overflow states.
There are times when the system must preserve the volatile LWP state. When the operating system 
context switches from one user thread to another, the old user state must be saved with the thread’s 
context and the new state must be loaded. When a hypervisor decides to switch from one guest OS to 
another, the same must be done for the guest systems’ states. Finally, state must be stored and reloaded 
when the system enters and exits SMM, since the SMM code may decide to shut off power to the core.
[AMD Public Use]
