Secure Virtual Machine
503
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
•
DR6 and DR7—The guest’s breakpoint state.
•
V_TPR—The guest’s virtual TPR.
•
V_IRQ—The flag indicating whether a virtual interrupt is pending in the guest.
•
CPL—If the guest is in real mode, the CPL is forced to 0; if the guest is in v86 mode, the CPL is
forced to 3. Otherwise, the CPL saved in the VMCB is used.
The processor checks the loaded guest state for consistency. If a consistency check fails while loading 
guest state, the processor performs a #VMEXIT. For additional information, see “Canonicalization 
and Consistency Checks” on page 504.
If the guest is in PAE paging mode according to the registers just loaded and nested paging is not 
enabled, the processor will also read the four PDPEs pointed to by the newly loaded CR3 value; setting 
any reserved bits in the PDPEs also causes a #VMEXIT.
It is possible for the VMRUN instruction to load a guest rIP that is outside the limit of the guest code 
segment or that is non-canonical (if running in long mode). If this occurs, a #GP fault is delivered 
inside the guest; the rIP falling outside the limit of the guest code segment is not considered illegal 
guest state.
After all guest state is loaded, and intercepts and other control bits are set up, the processor reenables 
interrupts by setting GIF to 1. It is assumed that VMM software cleared GIF some time before 
executing the VMRUN instruction, to ensure an atomic state switch.
Some processor models allow the VMM to designate certain guest VMCB fields as “clean,” meaning 
that they haven't been modified relative to the current state of hardware. This allows the hardware to 
optimize execution of VMRUN. See Section 15.15 for details on which fields may be affected by this. 
The descriptions below assume all fields are loaded.
Control Bits.  Besides loading guest state, the VMRUN instruction reads various control fields from 
the VMCB; most of these fields are not written back to the VMCB on #VMEXIT, since they cannot 
change during guest execution:
•
TSC_OFFSET—an offset to add when the guest reads the TSC (time stamp counter). Guest writes
to the TSC can be intercepted and emulated by changing the offset (without writing the physical
TSC). This offset is cleared when the guest exits back to the host.
•
V_INTR_PRIO, V_INTR_VECTOR, V_IGN_TPR—fields used to describe a virtual interrupt for
the guest (see “Injecting Virtual (INTR) Interrupts” on page 534).
•
V_INTR_MASKING—controls whether masking of interrupts (in EFLAGS.IF and TPR) is to be
virtualized (Section 15.21).
•
The address space ID (ASID) to use while running the guest.
•
A field to control flushing of the TLB during a VMRUN (see Section 15.16).
•
The intercept vectors describing the active intercepts for the guest. On exit from the guest, the
internal intercept registers are cleared so no host operations will be intercepted.
[AMD Public Use]
