4
System-Programming Overview
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Physical Memory.  Physical addresses are used to directly access main memory. For a particular 
computer system, the size of the available physical-address space is equal to the amount of main 
memory installed in the system. The maximum amount of physical memory accessible depends on the 
processor implementation and on the address-translation mode. The AMD64 architecture supports 
varying physical-memory sizes using the following address-translation modes:
•
Real-Address Mode—This mode, also called real mode, supports 1 megabyte of physical-address 
space using 20-bit physical addresses. This address-translation mode is described in “Real 
Addressing” on page 10. Real mode is available only from legacy mode (see “Legacy Modes” on 
page 14). 
•
Legacy Protected Mode—This mode supports several different address-space sizes, depending on 
the translation mechanism used and whether extensions to those mechanisms are enabled.
Legacy protected mode supports 4 gigabytes of physical-address space using 32-bit physical
addresses. Both segment translation (see “Segmentation” on page 5) and page translation (see
“Paging” on page 7) can be used to access the physical address space, when the processor is
running in legacy protected mode.
When the physical-address size extensions are enabled (see “Physical-Address Extensions (PAE)
Bit” on page 129), the page-translation mechanism can be extended to support 52-bit physical
addresses. 52-bit physical addresses allow up to 4 petabytes of physical-address space to be
supported. (Currently, the AMD64 architecture supports 40-bit addresses in this mode, allowing
up to 1 terabyte of physical-address space to be supported.
•
Long Mode—This mode is unique to the AMD64 architecture. This mode supports up to 4 
petabytes of physical-address space using 52-bit physical addresses. Long mode requires the use of 
page-translation and the physical-address size extensions (PAE).
1.1.3  Canonical Address Form
Long mode defines 64 bits of virtual-address space, but processor implementations can support less. 
Although some processor implementations do not use all 64 bits of the virtual address, they all check 
bits 63 through the most-significant implemented bit to see if those bits are all zeros or all ones. An 
address that complies with this property is in canonical address form. In most cases, a virtual-memory 
reference that is not in canonical form (in either the linear or effective form of the address) causes a 
general-protection exception (#GP) to occur. However, implied stack references where the stack 
address is not in canonical form causes a stack exception (#SS) to occur. Implied stack references 
include all push and pop instructions, and any instruction using RSP or RBP as a base register.
By checking canonical-address form, the AMD64 architecture prevents software from exploiting 
unused high bits of pointers for other purposes. Software complying with canonical-address form on a 
specific processor implementation can run unchanged on long-mode implementations supporting 
larger virtual-address spaces.
[AMD Public Use]
