380
Task Management
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
do share physical memory when paging is disabled, because virtual addresses are used as physical 
addresses.
A number of options are available to system software that shares segments between tasks:
•
Sharing segment descriptors using the GDT. All tasks have access to the GDT, so it is possible for
segments loaded in the GDT to be shared among tasks.
•
Sharing segment descriptors using a single LDT. Each task has its own LDT, and that LDT selector
is automatically saved and restored in the TSS by the processor during task switches. Tasks,
however, can share LDTs simply by storing the same LDT selector in multiple TSSs. Using the
LDT to manage segment sharing and segment isolation provides more flexibility to system
software than using the GDT for the same purpose.
•
Copying shared segment descriptors into multiple LDTs. Segment descriptors can be copied by
system software into multiple LDTs that are otherwise not shared between tasks. Allowing
segment sharing at the segment-descriptor level, rather than the LDT level or GDT level, provides
the greatest flexibility to system software.
In all three cases listed above, the actual data and instructions are shared between tasks only when the 
tasks’ virtual-to-physical address mappings are identical.
Paged Memory.  Each task has its own page-translation table base-address (CR3) register, and that 
register is automatically saved and restored in the TSS by the processor during task switches. This 
allows each task to point to its own set of page-translation tables, so that each task can translate virtual 
addresses to physical addresses independently. Page translation must be enabled for changes in CR3 
values to have an effect on virtual-to-physical address mapping. When page translation is disabled, the 
tables referenced by CR3 are ignored, and virtual addresses are equivalent to physical addresses.
12.3.2  Switching Tasks
The hardware task-switch mechanism transfers program control to a new task when any of the 
following occur:
•
A CALL or JMP instruction with a selector operand that references a task gate is executed. The
task gate can be located in either the LDT or GDT.
•
A CALL or JMP instruction with a selector operand that references a TSS descriptor is executed.
The TSS descriptor must be located in the GDT.
•
A software-interrupt instruction (INTn) is executed that references a task gate located in the IDT.
•
An exception or external interrupt occurs, and the vector references a task gate located in the IDT.
•
An IRET is executed while the EFLAGS.NT bit is set to 1, indicating that a return is being
performed from an inner-level task to an outer-level task. The new task is referenced using the
selector stored in the current-task link field. See “Nesting Tasks” on page 387 for additional
information. The RET instruction cannot be used to switch tasks.
When a task switch occurs, the following operations are performed automatically by the processor:
[AMD Public Use]
