510
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Despite the instruction name, the events raised by the INT1 (also known as ICEBP), INT3 and INTO 
instructions (opcodes F1h, CCh and CEh) are considered exceptions for the purposes of 
EXITINTINFO, not software interrupts. Only events raised by the INTn instruction (opcode CDh) are 
considered software interrupts.
•
Error Code Valid—Bit 11. Set to 1 if the guest exception would have pushed an error code;
otherwise cleared to zero.
•
Valid—Bit 31. Set to 1 if the intercept occurred while the guest attempted to deliver an exception
through the IDT; otherwise cleared to zero.
•
Errorcode—Bits 63:32. If EV is set to 1, holds the error code that the guest exception would have
pushed; otherwise is undefined.
In the case of multiple exceptions, EXITINTINFO records the aggregate information on all exceptions 
but the last (intercepted) one.
Example: A guest raises a #GP during delivery of which a #NP is raised (a scenario that, according to 
x86 rules, resolves to a #DF), and an intercepted #PF occurs during the attempt to deliver the #DF. 
Upon intercept of the #PF, EXITINTINFO indicates that the guest was in the process of delivering a 
#DF when the #PF occurred. The information about the intercepted page fault itself is encoded in the 
EXITCODE, EXITINFO1 and EXITINFO2 fields. If the VMM decides to repair and dismiss the #PF, 
it can resume guest execution by re-injecting (see Section 15.20) the fault recorded in EXITINTINFO. 
If the VMM decides that the #PF should be reflected back to the guest, it must combine the event in 
EXITINTINFO with the intercepted exception according to x86 rules. In this case, a #DF plus a #PF 
would result in a triple fault or shutdown.
15.7.3  EXITINTINFO Pseudo-Code
When delivering exceptions or interrupts in a guest, the processor checks for exception intercepts and 
updates the value of EXITINTINFO should an intercept occur during exception delivery. The 
following pseudo-code outlines how the processor delivers an event (exception or interrupt) E.
if E is an exception and is intercepted: 
    #VMEXIT(E)
E = (result of combining E with any prior events)
if (result was #DF and #DF is intercepted):
    #VMEXIT(#DF)
if (result was shutdown and shutdown is intercepted):
Table 15-1.
Guest Exception or Interrupt Types
Value
Type
0
External or virtual interrupt (INTR)
2
NMI
3
Exception (fault or trap)
4
Software interrupt (caused by INTn instruction)
[AMD Public Use]
