Memory System
233
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
The type subfield (bits 2:0) allows the encodings specified in Table 7-6 on page 218 to be used for 
memory characterization.
Figure 7-14.
Extended MTRR Type-Field Format (Fixed-Range MTRRs)
These extensions are enabled using the following bits in the SYSCFG MSR:
•
MtrrFixDramEn—Bit 18. When set to 1, RdMem and WrMem attributes are enabled. When
cleared to 0, these attributes are disabled. When disabled, accesses are directed to memory-mapped
I/O space. 
•
MtrrFixDramModEn—Bit 19. When set to 1, software can read and write the RdMem and
WrMem bits. When cleared to 0, writes do not modify the RdMem and WrMem bits, and reads
return 0.
To use the MTRR extensions, system software must first set MtrrFixDramModEn=1 to allow 
modification to the RdMem and WrMem bits. After the attribute bits are properly initialized in the 
fixed-range registers, the extensions can be enabled by setting MtrrFixDramEn=1.
RdMem and WrMem allow the processor to independently direct reads and writes to either system 
memory or memory-mapped I/O. The RdMem and WrMem controls are particularly useful when 
shadowing ROM devices located in memory-mapped I/O space. It is often useful to shadow such 
devices in RAM system memory to improve access performance, but writes into the RAM location can 
corrupt the shadowed ROM information. The MTRR extensions solve this problem. System software 
can create the shadow location by setting WrMem = 1 and RdMem = 0 for the specified memory range 
and then copy the ROM location into itself. Reads are directed to the memory-mapped ROM, but 
writes go to the same physical addresses in system memory. After the copy is complete, system 
software can change the bit values to WrMem = 0 and RdMem = 1. Now reads are directed to the faster 
copy located in system memory, and writes are directed to memory-mapped ROM. The ROM 
responds as it would normally to a write, which is to ignore it.
Not all combinations of RdMem and WrMem are supported for each memory type encoded by bits 2:0. 
Table 7-13 on page 234 shows the allowable combinations. The behavior of reserved encoding 
combinations (shown as gray-shaded cells) is undefined and results in unpredictable behavior.
7
5
4
3
2
0
Reserved
RdMem
WrMem
Type
[AMD Public Use]
