228
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
The PAT register contains eight page-attribute (PA) fields, numbered from PA0 to PA7. The PA fields 
hold the encoding of a memory type, as found in Table 7-9 on page 228. The PAT type-encodings 
match the MTRR type-encodings, with the exception that PAT adds the 07h encoding. The 07h 
encoding corresponds to a UC− type. The UC− type (07h) is identical to the UC type (00h) except it 
can be overridden by an MTRR type of WC.
Software can write any supported memory-type encoding into any of the eight PA fields. An attempt to 
write anything but zeros into the reserved fields causes a general-protection exception (#GP). An 
attempt to write an unsupported type encoding into a PA field also causes a #GP exception.
The PAT register fields are initiated at processor reset to the default values shown in Table 7-10 on 
page 229.
7.8.2  PAT Indexing
PA fields in the PAT register are selected using three bits from the page-table entries. These bits are:
•
PAT (page attribute table)—The PAT bit is bit 7 in 4-Kbyte PTEs; it is bit 12 in 2-Mbyte and 4-
Mbyte PDEs. Page-table entries that don’t have a PAT bit (PML4 entries, for example) assume PAT
= 0.
•
PCD (page cache disable)—The PCD bit is bit 4 in all page-table entries. The PCD from the PTE
or PDE is selected depending on the paging mode.
•
PWT (page writethrough)—The PWT bit is bit 3 in all page-table entries. The PWT from the PTE
or PDE is selected depending on the paging mode.
Table 7-9.
PAT Type Encodings
Type Value
Type Name
Type Description
00h
UC—Uncacheable
All accesses are uncacheable. Write combining is not allowed. Speculative 
accesses are not allowed.
01h
WC—Write-Combining
All accesses are uncacheable. Write combining is allowed. Speculative 
reads are allowed.
04h
WT—Writethrough
Reads allocate cache lines on a cache miss, but only to the shared state. 
Cache lines are not allocated on a write miss. Write hits update the cache 
and main memory.
05h
WP—Write-Protect
Reads allocate cache lines on a cache miss, but only to the shared state. All 
writes update main memory. Cache lines are not allocated on a write miss. 
Write hits invalidate the cache line and update main memory.
06h
WB—Writeback
Reads allocate cache lines on a cache miss, and can allocate to either the 
shared or exclusive state. Writes allocate to the modified state on a cache 
miss.
07h
UC–
(UC minus)
All accesses are uncacheable. Write combining is not allowed. Speculative 
accesses are not allowed. Can be overridden by an MTRR with the WC 
type.
[AMD Public Use]
