x86 and AMD64 Architecture Differences
37
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
handling of interrupts by 64-bit operating systems and applications. The changes are summarized in 
the following sections. See “Long-Mode Interrupt Control Transfers” on page 281 for detailed 
information on these changes.
2.6.1  Interrupt Descriptor Table
The long-mode interrupt-descriptor table (IDT) must contain 64-bit mode interrupt-gate or trap-gate 
descriptors for all interrupts or exceptions that can occur while the processor is running in long mode. 
Task gates cannot be used in the long-mode IDT, because control transfers through task gates are not 
supported in long mode. In long mode, the IDT index is formed by scaling the interrupt vector by 16. 
In legacy protected mode, the IDT is indexed by scaling the interrupt vector by eight.
2.6.2  Stack Frame Pushes
In legacy mode, the size of an IDT entry (16 bits or 32 bits) determines the size of 
interrupt-stack-frame pushes, and SS:eSP is pushed only on a CPL change. In long mode, the size of 
interrupt stack-frame pushes is fixed at eight bytes, because interrupts are handled in 64-bit mode. 
Long mode interrupts also cause SS:RSP to be pushed unconditionally, rather than pushing only on a 
CPL change.
2.6.3  Stack Switching
Legacy mode provides a mechanism to automatically switch stack frames in response to an interrupt. 
In long mode, a slightly modified version of the legacy stack-switching mechanism is implemented, 
and an alternative stack-switching mechanism—called the interrupt stack table (IST)—is supported.
Long-Mode Stack Switches.  When stacks are switched as part of a long-mode privilege-level 
change resulting from an interrupt, the following occurs:
•
The target-stack pointer read from the TSS is a 64-bit RSP value.
•
The SS register is loaded with a null selector. Setting the new SS selector to null allows nested
control transfers in 64-bit mode to be handled properly. The SS.RPL value is cleared to 0.
•
The old SS and RSP are saved on the new stack.
Interrupt Stack Table.  In long mode, a new interrupt stack table (IST) mechanism is available as an 
alternative to the modified legacy stack-switching mechanism. The IST mechanism unconditionally 
switches stacks when it is enabled. It can be enabled for individual interrupt vectors using a field in the 
IDT entry. This allows mixing interrupt vectors that use the modified legacy mechanism with vectors 
that use the IST mechanism. The IST pointers are stored in the long-mode TSS. The IST mechanism is 
only available when long mode is enabled.
2.6.4  IRET Instruction
In compatibility mode, IRET pops SS:eSP off the stack only if there is a CPL change. This allows 
legacy applications to run properly in compatibility mode when using the IRET instruction.
[AMD Public Use]
