166
Page Translation and Protection
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
(An exception is the WRUSS instruction, whose accesses are always treated as user-shadow stack 
accesses).
5.7.2  Shadow Stack Pages
Shadow stack accesses are allowed only to linear addresses that are mapped to shadow stack pages. A 
shadow stack is described by the following combination of page-table protection bits:
•
R/W(Read/Write)=0 and D(Dirty)=1 in the final page-table entry that maps the linear address. 
•
R/W(Read/Write)=1 in all other page-mapping structures leading to the final page-table entry.
The U/S (User/Supervisor) bit in the page-translation tables determines the privilege level required to 
access a given shadow stack page. If U/S=0, the page is considered a supervisor-shadow stack page 
and if U/S=1 the page is considered a user-shadow stack page.
5.7.3  Shadow Stack Protection Checks
The processor restricts the types of memory accesses that are allowed to read or write a shadow stack 
page. The page-level protection bits and the type of memory access are examined to determine if the 
access is allowed. The following section assumes the memory protection key field allows access to the 
given page, if memory protection keys are enabled, and that CR0.WP=1 (which is prerequisite for 
enabling the shadow stack feature).
The following memory accesses are allowed to shadow stack pages:
•
User-shadow stack accesses can read or write user-shadow stack pages,
•
Supervisor-shadow stack accesses can read or write supervisor-shadow stack pages. 
(Note: shadow stack write accesses are allowed to complete, even though the R/W bit is 0).
•
Non-shadow stack reads can read any shadow stack page (subject to U/S page protections). 
The following memory accesses are not allowed:
•
User-shadow stack access to supervisor-shadow stack pages.
•
Supervisor-shadow stack access to user-shadow stack pages.
•
Any shadow stack access to a non-shadow stack page. 
•
Non-shadow stack writes to a shadow stack page.
If the memory access is not allowed, a page-fault exception (#PF) is generated with the paging-
protection violation bits (user/supervisor, read/write, or both) set in the error code as appropriate. The 
SS bit is set in the #PF error code if the page-fault was caused by a shadow stack access. (See “Page-
Fault Error Code” on page 263).
[AMD Public Use]
