558
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Exact details of the hand-off from the SL to an SK are dependent on characteristics of the SL, SK and 
the initial untrusted operating environment. However, there are specific requirements for the SL 
image, as described in Section 15.27.2. 
15.27.2  Secure Loader Image
The secure loader (SL) image contains all code and initialized data sections of a secure loader. This 
code and initial data are used to initialize and start a security kernel in a completely safe manner, 
including setting up DEV protection for memory allocated for use by SL and SK. The SL image is 
loaded into a region of memory called the secure loader block (SLB) and can be no larger than 
64Kbyte (see Section 15.27.3). The SL image is defined to start at byte offset 0 in the SLB.
The first word (16 bits) of the SL image must specify the SL entry point as an unsigned offset into the 
SL image. The second word must contain the length of the image in bytes; the maximum length 
allowed is 65535 bytes. These two values are used by the SKINIT instruction. The layout of the rest of 
the image is determined by software conventions. The image typically includes a digital signature for 
validation purposes. The digital signature hash must include the entry point and length fields. SKINIT 
transfers the SL image to the TPM for validation prior to starting SL execution (see Section 15.27.6 for 
further details of this transfer). The SL image for which the hash is computed must be ready to execute 
without prior manipulation.
15.27.3  Secure Loader Block
The secure loader block is a 64Kbyte range of physical memory which may be located at any 64Kbyte-
aligned address below 4Gbyte. The SL image must have been loaded into the SLB starting at offset 0 
before executing SKINIT. The physical address of the SLB is provided as an input operand (in the 
EAX register) to SKINIT, which sets up special protection for the SLB against device accesses (i.e., 
the DEV need not be activated yet).
The SL must be written to execute initially in flat 32-bit protected mode with paging disabled. A base 
address can be derived from the value in EAX to access data areas within the SL image using 
base+displacement addressing, to make the SL code position-independent.
Memory between the end of the SL image and the end of the SLB may be used immediately upon entry 
by the SL as secure scratch space, such as for an initial stack, before DEV protections are set up for the 
rest of memory. The amount of space required for this will limit the maximum size of the SL image, 
and will depend on SL implementation. SKINIT sets the ESP register to the appropriate top-of-stack 
value (EAX + 10000h).
Figure 15-14 illustrates the layout of the SLB, showing where EAX and ESP point after SKINIT 
execution. Labels in italics indicate suggested uses; other labels reflect required items.
[AMD Public Use]
