552
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
Bit 0 (P)—cleared to 0 if the nested page was not present, 1 otherwise
•
Bit 1 (RW)—set to 1 if the nested page table level access was a write. Note that host table walks for
guest page tables are always treated as data writes.
•
Bit 2 (US)—set to 1 if the nested page table level access was a user access. Note that nested page
table accesses performed by the MMU are treated as user accesses unless there are features
enabled that override this.
•
Bit 3 (RSV)—set to 1 if reserved bits were set in the corresponding nested page table entry
•
Bit 4 (ID)—set to 1 if the nested page table level access was a code read. Note that nested table
walks for guest page tables are always treated as data writes, even if the access itself is a code read
•
Bit 6 (SS) - set to 1 if the fault was caused by a shadow stack access. 
In addition, the VMCB contents for nested page faults indicate whether the page fault was encountered 
during the nested page table walk for a guest page TLB entry, or for the final nested walk for the guest 
physical address, as indicated by EXITINFO1[33:32]:
•
Bit 32—set to 1 if nested page fault occurred while translating the guest’s final physical address
•
Bit 33—set to 1 if nested page fault occurred while translating the guest page tables
•
Bit 37—set to 1 if the page was marked as a supervisor shadow stack page in the leaf node of the
nested page table and the shadow stack check feature is enabled in VMCB offset 90h.
Guest faults are entirely a function of the guest page tables and processor mode; they are delivered to 
the guest as normal #PF exceptions without any VMM intervention, unless the VMM is intercepting 
guest #PF exceptions. Bits 32 and 33 of EXITINFO1 are written during nested page faults to indicate 
whether the page fault was encountered during the nested page table walk for a guest page table's table 
entries, or if the fault was encountered during the nested page table walk for the translation of the final 
guest physical address.
See Section 15.36.10, “RMP and VMPL Access Checks,” on page 608 for additional 
#VMEXIT(NPF) EXITINFO1 field definitions.
The processor may provide additional instruction decode assist information. See Section 15.10.
15.25.7  Combining Nested and Guest Attributes
Any access to guest physical memory is subjected to a permission check by examining the mapping of 
the guest physical address in the nested page table.
A page is considered writable by the guest only if it is marked writable at both the guest and nested 
page table levels. Note that the guest’s gCR0.WP affects only the interpretation of the guest page table 
entry; setting gCR0.WP cannot make a page writable at any CPL in the guest, if the page is marked 
read-only in the nested page table. The host hCR0.WP bit is ignored under nested paging.
A page is considered executable by the guest only if it is marked executable at both the guest and 
nested page table levels. If the EFER.NXE bit is cleared for the guest, all guest pages are executable at 
[AMD Public Use]
