188
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
read instruction requires the result of the write instruction for proper software operation. For
cacheable memory types, the write data can be forwarded to the read instruction before it is
actually written to memory.
•
Instruction fetching constitutes a parallel, asynchronous stream of reads that is independent from
and unordered with respect to the read accesses performed by loads in that instruction stream.
7.1.2  Write Ordering
Writes affect program order because they affect the state of software-visible resources. The following 
rules govern write ordering:
•
Generally, out-of-order writes are not allowed. Write instructions executed out of order cannot
commit (write) their result to memory until all previous instructions have completed in program
order. The processor can, however, hold the result of an out-of-order write instruction in a private
buffer (not visible to software) until that result can be committed to memory.
•
It is possible for writes to write-combining memory types to appear to complete out of order,
relative to writes into other memory types. See “Memory Types” on page 196 and “Write
Combining” on page 203 for additional information.
•
Speculative writes are not allowed. As with out-of-order writes, speculative write instructions
cannot commit their result to memory until all previous instructions have completed in program
order. Processors can hold the result in a private buffer (not visible to software) until the result can
be committed.
•
Write buffering is allowed. When a write instruction completes and commits its result, that result
can be buffered until it is actually written to system memory in program order. Although the write
buffer itself is not directly accessible by software, the results in the buffer are accessible by
subsequent memory accesses to the locations that are buffered, including reads for which only a
subset of bytes being accessed are in the buffer. For example, a doubleword read that overlaps a
single modified byte in the write buffer can return the buffered value for that byte before that write
has been committed to memory.
In general, any read from cacheable memory returns the net result of all prior globally and locally
visible writes to those bytes, as performed in program order. A given implementation may provide
bytes from the write buffer to satisfy this, or may stall the read until any overlapping buffered
writes have been committed to memory. For cacheable memory types, the write buffer can be read
out-of-order and speculatively, just like memory.
•
Write combining is allowed. In some situations software can relax the write-ordering rules through
the use of a Write Combining memory type or non-temporal store instructions, and allow several
writes to be combined into fewer writes to memory. When write-combining is used, it is possible
for writes to other memory types to proceed ahead of (out-of-order) memory-combining writes,
unless the writes are to the same address. Write-combining should be used only when the order of
writes does not affect program order (for example, writes to a graphics frame buffer).
[AMD Public Use]
