Exceptions and Interrupts
259
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Error Code Returned.  Zero.
Program Restart.  #AC is a fault-type exception. The saved instruction pointer points to the 
instruction that caused the #AC.
8.2.18  #MC—Machine-Check Exception (Vector 18)
The #MC exception is model specific. Processor implementations are not required to support the #MC 
exception, and those implementations that do support #MC can vary in how the #MC exception 
mechanism works.
The exception is enabled by setting CR4.MCE to 1. The machine-check architecture can include 
model-specific masking for controlling the reporting of some errors. Refer to Chapter 9, “Machine 
Check Architecture,” for more information.
Error Code Returned.  None. Error information is provided by model-specific registers (MSRs) 
defined by the machine-check architecture.
Program Restart.  #MC is an abort-type exception. If the RIPV flag (RIP valid) is set in the 
MCG_Status MSR, the saved CS and rIP point to the instruction at which the interrupted process 
thread can be restarted. If RIPV is clear, there is no reliable way to restart the program. If the EIPV flag 
(EIP valid) is set in the MCG_Status MSR, the saved CS and rIP point to the process thread that caused 
the error. If EIPV is clear, the CS:rIP of the instruction causing the failure is not known or the machine 
check is not related to a specific instruction.
8.2.19  #XF—SIMD Floating-Point Exception (Vector 19)
The #XF exception is used to handle unmasked SSE floating-point exceptions. A #XF exception 
occurs when all of the following conditions are true:
•
A SSE floating-point exception occurs. The exception causes the processor to set the appropriate
exception-status bit in the MXCSR register to 1.
•
The exception-mask bit in the MXCSR that corresponds to the SSE floating-point exception is
clear (=0).
•
CR4.OSXMMEXCPT=1, indicating that the operating system supports handling of SSE floating-
point exceptions.
x87 Floating-point single-precision
4
x87 Floating-point double-precision
8
x87 Floating-point extended-precision
8
x87 Floating-point save areas
2 or 4 (depends on operand size)
Table 8-7.
Data-Type Alignment (continued)
Supported Data Type
Required Alignment
(Byte Boundary)
[AMD Public Use]
