Processor Initialization and Long Mode Activation
489
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
-
FS and GS data-segment descriptors for 64-bit mode, if required by the operating system. If
these segments are used in 64-bit mode, system software can also initialize the full 64-bit base
addresses using the WRMSR instruction. See “FS and GS Registers in 64-Bit Mode” on
page 80 for more information.
The existing protected-mode GDT can be used to hold the long-mode descriptors described above.
•
A single 64-bit TSS for holding the privilege-level 0, 1, and 2 stack pointers, the interrupt-stack-
table pointers, and the I/O-redirection-bitmap base address (if required). This is the only TSS
required, because hardware task-switching is not supported in long mode. See “64-Bit Task State
Segment” on page 376 for more information.
•
The 4-level page-translation tables required by long mode. Long mode also requires the use of
physical-address extensions (PAE) to support physical-address sizes greater than 32 bits. See
“Long-Mode Page Translation” on page 139 for more information.
If paging is enabled during the initialization process, it must be disabled before enabling long mode. 
After the long-mode data structures are initialized, and paging is disabled, software can enable and 
activate long mode. 
14.6
Enabling and Activating Long Mode
Long mode is enabled by setting the long-mode enable control bit (EFER.LME) to 1. However, long 
mode is not activated until software also enables paging. When software enables paging while long 
mode is enabled, the processor activates long mode, which the processor indicates by setting the long-
mode-active status bit (EFER.LMA) to 1. The processor behaves as a 32-bit x86 processor in all 
respects until long mode is activated, even if long mode is enabled. None of the new 64-bit data sizes, 
addressing, or system aspects available in long mode can be used until EFER.LMA=1.
Table 14-4 shows the control-bit settings for enabling and activating the various operating modes of 
the AMD64 architecture. The default address and data sizes are shown for each mode. For the methods 
of overriding these default address and data sizes, see “Instruction Prefixes” in Volume 1.
[AMD Public Use]
