Page Translation and Protection
157
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Reserved Bits.  Software should clear all reserved bits to 0. If the processor is in long mode, or if 
page-size and physical-address extensions are enabled in legacy mode, a page-fault exception (#PF) 
occurs if reserved bits are not cleared to 0. 
5.4.2  Notes on Accessed and Dirty Bits
The processor never sets the Accessed bit or the Dirty bit for a not present page (P = 0). The ordering 
of Accessed and Dirty bit updates with respect to surrounding loads and stores is discussed below.
Accessed (A) Bit.  The Accessed bit can be set for instructions that are speculatively executed by the 
processor.
For example, the Accessed bit may be set by instructions in a mispredicted branch path even though 
those instructions are never retired. Thus, software must not assume that the TLB entry has not been 
cached in the TLB, just because no instruction that accessed the page was successfully retired. 
Nevertheless, a table entry is never cached in the TLB without its Accessed bit being set at the same 
time.
The processor does not order Accessed bit updates with respect to loads done by other instructions.
Dirty (D) Bit.  The Dirty bit is not updated speculatively. For instructions with multiple writes, the D 
bit may be set for any writes completed up to the point of a fault. In rare cases, the Dirty bit may be set 
even if a write was not actually performed, including MASKMOVQ with a mask of zero and certain 
x87 floating point instructions that cause an exception. Thus software can not assume that the page has 
actually been written even where PTE[D] is set to 1.
If PTE[D] is cleared to 0, software can rely on the fact that the page has not been written.
In general, Dirty bit updates are ordered with respect to other loads and stores, although not 
necessarily with respect to accesses to WC memory; in particular, they may not cause WC buffers to 
be flushed. However, to ensure compatibility with future processors, a serializing operation should be 
inserted before reading the D bit.
5.5
Translation-Lookaside Buffer (TLB)
When paging is enabled, every memory access has its virtual address automatically translated into a 
physical address using the page-translation hierarchy. Translation-lookaside buffers (TLBs), also 
known as page-translation caches, nearly eliminate the performance penalty associated with page 
translation. TLBs are special on-chip caches that hold the most-recently used virtual-to-physical 
address translations. Each memory reference (instruction and data) is checked by the TLB. If the 
translation is present in the TLB, it is immediately provided to the processor, thus avoiding external 
memory references for accessing page tables.
TLBs take advantage of the principle of locality. That is, if a memory address is referenced, it is likely 
that nearby memory addresses will be referenced in the near future. In the context of paging, the 
proximity of memory addresses required for locality can be broad—it is equal to the page size. Thus, it 
[AMD Public Use]
