590
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
 SmmLock bit in HWCR MSR must be set
•
ASID must not be greater than the maximum value defined by CPUID 
Fn8000_001F_ECX[NumEncryptedGuests]
If any of the above consistency checks fail, the VMRUN instruction will terminate with a 
VMEXIT_INVALID error code. If MemEncryptionModEn is 0, SEV cannot be enabled and the 
VMCB control bit for SEV is ignored.
Note that on systems where CPUID Fn8000_001F_EAX[64BitHost] is set to 1, the hypervisor must be 
in 64-bit mode in order to execute a VMRUN to an SEV-enabled guest. If not, the VMRUN fails with 
a VMEXIT_INVALID error code.
15.34.4  Supported Operating Modes
Secure Encrypted Virtualization may be enabled on guests running in any operating mode. However 
the guest is only able to control memory encryption when operating in long mode or legacy PAE mode. 
In all other modes, all guest memory accesses are unconditionally considered private and are 
encrypted with the guest-specific key.
15.34.5  SEV Encryption Behavior
When a guest is executed with SEV enabled, the guest page tables are used to determine the C-bit for a 
memory page and hence the encryption status of that memory page. This allows a guest to determine 
which pages are private or shared, but this control is available only for data pages. Memory accesses 
on behalf of instruction fetches and guest page table walks are always treated as private, regardless of 
the software value of the C-bit. This behavior ensures non-guest entities (such as the hypervisor) 
cannot inject their own code or data into an SEV-enabled guest. If a guest does wish to make data in 
instruction pages or page tables accessible to code outside of the guest, this data must be explicitly 
copied into a shared data page.
Note that while the guest may choose to set the C-bit explicitly on instruction pages and page table 
addresses, the value of this bit is a don't-care in such situations as hardware always performs these as 
private accesses. 
15.34.6  Page Table Support
An SEV-enabled guest controls encryption in its own guest page tables using the C-bit defined by 
CPUID 8000_001F[EBX]. This location is the same C-bit location as defined under SME 
(Section 7.10, “Secure Memory Encryption,” on page 238) in non-virtualized mode. If the C-bit is an 
address bit, this bit is masked from the guest physical address when it is translated through the nested 
page tables. Consequently, the hypervisor does not need to be aware of which pages the guest has 
chosen to mark private.
For example if the C-bit is address bit 47, when a guest accesses virtual address 0x54321, it might be 
translated to guest physical address 0x8000_00AB_C321, indicating the page should be encrypted 
with the private guest key. When this guest physical address is translated through the nested page 
tables, host virtual address 0xAB_C321 is used for translation. The C-bit value from the guest physical 
[AMD Public Use]
