120
Segmented Virtual Memory
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
4.11.3  Return Control Transfers
Returns to calling programs can be performed by using the RET instruction. The following types of 
returns are possible:
•
Near Return—Near returns perform control transfers within the same code segment, so the CS
register is unchanged. The new offset is popped off the stack and into the rIP register. No privilege
checks are performed.
•
Far Return, Same Privilege—A far return transfers control from one code segment to another.
When the original code segment is at the same privilege level as the target code segment, a far
pointer (CS:rIP) is popped off the stack and the RPL of the new code segment (CS) is checked. If
the requested privilege level (RPL) matches the current privilege level (CPL), then a return is made
to the same privilege level. This prevents software from changing the CS value on the stack in an
attempt to return to higher-privilege software.
•
Far Return, Less Privilege—Far returns can change privilege levels, but only to a lower-privilege
level. In this case a stack switch is performed between the current, higher-privilege program and
the lower-privilege return program. The CS-register and rIP-register values are popped off the
stack. The lower-privilege stack pointer is also popped off the stack and into the SS register and
rSP register. The processor checks both the CS and SS privilege levels to ensure they are equal and
at a lesser privilege than the current CS.
In the case of nested returns to 64-bit mode, a null selector can be popped into the SS register. See
“Nested Returns to 64-Bit Mode Procedures” on page 121.
Far returns also check the privilege levels of the DS, ES, FS and GS selector registers. If any of
these segment registers have a selector with a higher privilege than the return program, the
segment register is loaded with the null selector.
Stack Switching.  The stack switch performed by a far return to a lower-privilege level reverses the 
stack switch of a call gate to a higher-privilege level, except that parameters are never automatically 
copied as part of a return. The process followed by a far-return stack switch in long mode and legacy 
mode is:
1. The return code-segment RPL is read by the processor from the CS value stored on the stack to
determine that a lower-privilege control transfer is occurring.
2. The return-program instruction pointer is popped off the current-program (higher privilege) stack
and loaded into the CS and rIP registers.
3. The return instruction can include an immediate operand that specifies the number of additional
bytes to be popped off of the stack. These bytes may correspond to the parameters pushed onto the
stack previously by a call through a call gate containing a non-zero parameter-count field. If the
return includes the immediate operand, then the stack pointer is adjusted upward by adding the
specified number of bytes to the rSP.
4. The return-program stack pointer is popped off the current-program (higher privilege) stack and
loaded into the SS and rSP registers. In the case of nested returns to 64-bit mode, a null selector
can be popped into the SS register.
[AMD Public Use]
