50
System Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
User Mode Instruction Prevention (UMIP).  Bit 11. Setting UMIP to 1 enables a security mode to 
restrict certain instructions executing at CPL>0 so that they do not reveal information about structures 
that are controlled by the processor when it is at CPL=0. When UMIP is enabled, execution of SGDT, 
SIDT, SLDT, SMSW and STR instructions become available only at CPL=0 and any attempt to 
execute them with CPL>0 results in a #GP fault with error code 0. See Section 6 “System 
Instructions,” on page 170 for more information about UMIP.
5-Level Paging Enable (LA57) .  Bit 12. Setting this bit to 1 while EFER[LMA]=1 enables 5-Level 
paging. 5-Level paging allows for the translation of up to 57 virtual address bits. See Section 
Section 5.3 “Long-Mode Page Translation,” on page 139 for a description of 4-Level and 5-Level 
paging. 
FSGSBASE.  Bit 16. System software must set this bit to 1 to enable the execution of the 
RDFSBASE, RDGSBASE, WRFSBASE, and WRGSBASE instructions when supported. When 
enabled, these instructions allow software running in 64-bit mode at any privilege level to read and 
write the FS.base and GS.base hidden segment register state. See the discussion of segment registers in 
64-bit mode in Section 4.5.3 “Segment Registers in 64-Bit Mode,” on page 80. Also see descriptions 
of the RDFSBASE, RDGSBASE, WRFSBASE, and WRGSBASE instructions in Volume 3. 
Processor Context Identifier Enable (PCIDE).  Bit 17. Enable support for Process Context 
Identifiers (PCIDs). System software must set this bit to 1 to enable execution of the INVPCID 
instruction when supported. Can only be set in long mode (EFER.LMA = 1). See Chapter 5.5.1, 
“Process Context Identifier,” for more information on Process Context Identifiers. 
XSAVE and Extended States (OSXSAVE).  Bit 18. After verifying hardware support for the 
extended processor state management instructions, operating system software sets this bit to indicate 
support for the XGETBV, XSAVE and XRSTOR instructions.
Setting this bit also:
•
allows the execution of the XGETBV and XSETBV instructions, and
•
enables the XSAVE and XRSTOR instructions to save and restore the x87 FPU state (including
MMX registers), along with other processor extended states enabled in XCR0.
After initializing the XSAVE/XRSTOR save area, XSAVEOPT (if supported) may be used to save x87 
FPU and other enabled extended processor state. For more information on XSAVEOPT, see individual 
instruction listing in Chapter 2 of Volume 4.
Note that legacy SSE instruction execution must be enabled prior to enabling extended processor state 
management.
Supervisor Mode Execution Prevention (SMEP).  Bit 20. Setting this bit enables the supervisor 
mode execution prevention feature, if supported. This feature prevents the execution of instructions 
that reside in pages accessible by user-mode software when the processor is in supervisor-mode. See 
Section 5.6 “Page-Protection Checks,” on page 161 for more information. 
[AMD Public Use]
