78
Segmented Virtual Memory
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
The selector format consists of the following fields:
Selector Index Field.  Bits 15:3. The selector-index field specifies an entry in the descriptor table. 
Descriptor-table entries are eight bytes long, so the selector index is scaled by 8 to form a byte offset 
into the descriptor table. The offset is then added to either the global or local descriptor-table base 
address (as indicated by the table-index bit) to form the descriptor-entry address in virtual-address 
space.
Some descriptor entries in long mode are 16 bytes long rather than 8 bytes (see “Legacy Segment 
Descriptors” on page 88 for more information on long-mode descriptor-table entries). These expanded 
descriptors consume two entries in the descriptor table. Long mode, however, continues to scale the 
selector index by eight to form the descriptor-table offset. It is the responsibility of system software to 
assign selectors such that they correctly point to the start of an expanded entry.
Table Indicator (TI) Bit.  Bit 2. The TI bit indicates which table holds the descriptor referenced by the 
selector index. When TI=0 the GDT is used and when TI=1 the LDT is used. The descriptor-table base 
address is read from the appropriate descriptor-table register and added to the scaled selector index as 
described above.
Requestor Privilege-Level (RPL) Field.  Bits 1:0. The RPL represents the privilege level (CPL) the 
processor is operating under at the time the selector is created.
RPL is used in segment privilege-checks to prevent software running at lesser privilege levels from 
accessing privileged data. See “Data-Access Privilege Checks” on page 106 and “Control-Transfer 
Privilege Checks” on page 109 for more information on segment privilege-checks.
Null Selector.  Null selectors have a selector index of 0 and TI=0, corresponding to the first entry in 
the GDT. However, null selectors do not reference the first GDT entry but are instead used to 
invalidate unused segment registers. A general-protection exception (#GP) occurs if a reference is 
made to use a segment register containing a null selector in non-64-bit mode. By initializing unused 
segment registers with null selectors software can trap references to unused segments.
Null selectors can only be loaded into the DS, ES, FS and GS data-segment registers, and into the 
LDTR descriptor-table register. A #GP occurs if software attempts to load the CS register with a null 
selector or if software attempts to load the SS register with a null selector in non 64-bit mode or at CPL 
3. 
If CPUID Fn8000_0021_EAX[NullSelectorClearsBase] (bit 6) = 1, loading a segment register with a 
null selector clears the base address and limit of the segment register in all cases except a load of DS, 
ES, FS, or GS by an IRET, IRETD, IRETQ, or RETF instruction that changes the current privilege 
level, in which case these fields are left untouched. If CPUID 
Fn8000_0021_EAX[NullSelectorClearsBase] (bit 6) = 0, loading a segment register with a null 
selector makes the base address and limit of the segment register undefined. Because references to 
segment registers containing a null selector cause a #GP exception, the segment base and limit values 
have no effect. However, OS management of segment state may be simplified for processors 
supporting this clearing functionality. 
[AMD Public Use]
