322
Machine Check Architecture
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
-
The processor does not support Machine Check Recovery as indicated by feature bit CPUID 
Fn8000_0007_EBX[SUCCOR].
If error recovery is not possible, the handler should log the error information and return to the
system software responsible for shutting down the processor core.
•
Check the MCi_STATUS[UC] bit to see if the processor corrected the error. If UC is set, the 
processor did not correct the error and the exception handler must correct the error before 
restarting the interrupted program. 
-
If MCA Recovery is supported:
   • Check MCA_STATUS[TCC].
   • If TCC is set, the context of the process executing on the interrupted thread may be corrupt
and the thread cannot be recovered. The rest of the system is unaffected; it is possible to
terminate only the affected process thread.
   • If TCC is clear, the context of the process thread executing on the interrupted logical core is
not corrupt. Recovery of the process thread may be possible, but only if the uncorrected
error condition is first corrected by software; otherwise, the interrupted process thread must
be terminated.
If the handler cannot correct the error or the MCG_STATUS[RIPV] bit is cleared, it should not 
return control to the interrupted program, but should log the error information and terminate the 
software process that was about to consume the uncorrected data. If the error has compromised the 
state of a guest operating system, the guest should be restarted. If the state of the virtual machine 
has been corrupted, the virtual machine must be reinitialized.
•
When identifying the error condition, portable exception handlers should examine only the 
architecturally defined fields of the MCi_STATUS register. 
•
If the MCG_STATUS[RIPV] bit is set, the interrupted program can be restarted reliably at the 
instruction pointer address pushed onto the exception handler stack. If RIPV = 0, the interrupted 
program cannot be restarted reliably at that location, although it can be restarted at that location for 
debugging purposes.
•
When logging errors, particularly those that are not recoverable, check the MCG_STATUS[EIPV] 
bit to see if the instruction-pointer address pushed onto the exception handler stack is related to the 
process thread interrupted by the machine-check exception. If EIPV = 0, the address is not 
guaranteed to be related to the interrupted process thread.
•
Before exiting the machine-check handler, clear the MCG_STATUS[MCIP] bit. MCIP indicates a 
machine-check exception occurred. If this bit is set when another machine-check exception occurs, 
the processor enters the shutdown state.
•
When an exception handler is able to, at a minimum, successfully log an error condition, the 
MCi_STATUS registers should be cleared before exiting the machine-check handler. Software is 
responsible for clearing at least the MCi_STATUS[VAL] bits.
•
Additional machine-check exception-handler portability can be added by having the handler use 
the CPUID instruction to identify the processor and its capabilities. Implementation-specific 
[AMD Public Use]
