Shadow Stacks
679
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
18.2
The Shadow Stack Pointer
On processors implementing the shadow stack feature, the Shadow Stack Pointer (SSP) register 
contains the address of the current top of the shadow stack. The width of the shadow stack is 64 bits in 
64-bit mode and 32 bits in legacy and compatibility modes. The address size of SSP is 64 bits in 64-bit 
mode and 32 bits in legacy and compatibility modes.
The SSP register cannot be encoded as a source or destination register by regular instructions and thus 
is not directly accessible to software as a general operand, nor as an address operand. The SSP register 
is directly accessible only by using the shadow stack management instructions (see “Shadow Stack 
Management Instructions” on page 689).
18.3
Shadow Stack Operation for CALL (near) and RET 
(near)
When shadow stacks are enabled, the CALL (near) instruction pushes the return address onto the 
shadow stack, in addition to pushing it onto the program stack. On the subsequent near RET/RETn 
instruction, the return addresses are read from both stacks and compared. If the return addresses do not 
match, a control-protection (#CP) exception is generated.
A CALL (near) with a displacement of 0 (CALL +0) does not push the return address onto the shadow 
stack since the “CALL +0” idiom does not actually branch to another code sequence, and is typically 
not followed by a return instruction. 
One form of the return instruction, RETn, pops ‘n’ additional parameters from the program stack 
before returning to the caller. Since the shadow stack does not store any data items, RETn does not pop 
additional parameters from the shadow stack. 
18.4
Shadow Stack Operation for Far Transfers
The term ‘far transfer’ in the following discussion encompasses the following types of control 
transfers:
•
Explicit CALL (far) to a procedure in another code segment
•
Exceptions and interrupts that transfer to a handler in another code segment
•
RET (far) and IRET instructions
A far transfer may also change the CPL. The exact operation of the shadow stack depends on the type 
of far transfer involved, the associated CPL change (if any) and whether the shadow stack capability is 
enabled for the target CPL. Shadow stack operations for far transfers are described in the following 
sections and summarized in Table 18-1. (See AMD Architecture Programmers Manual Volume 3 for 
detailed instruction algorithms for CALL (far), RET (far), IRET and INTn.)
[AMD Public Use]
