186
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
L1 Data Cache—The L1 (level-1) data cache holds the data most recently read or written by the
software running on the processor.
•
L1 Instruction Cache—The L1 instruction cache is similar to the L1 data cache except that it holds
only the instructions executed most frequently. In some processor implementations, the L1
instruction cache can be combined with the L1 data cache to form a unified L1 cache.
•
L2 Cache—The L2 (level-2) cache is usually several times larger than the L1 caches, but it is also
slower. It is common for L2 caches to be implemented as a unified cache containing both
instructions and data. Recently used instructions and data that do not fit within the L1 caches can
reside in the L2 cache. The L2 cache can be exclusive, meaning it does not cache information
contained in the L1 cache. Conversely, inclusive L2 caches contain a copy of the L1-cached
information.
Memory-read operations from cacheable memory first check the cache to see if the requested 
information is available. A read hit occurs if the information is available in the cache, and a read miss 
occurs if the information is not available. Likewise, a write hit occurs if the memory write can be 
stored in the cache, and a write miss occurs if it cannot be stored in the cache.
Caches are divided into fixed-size blocks called cache lines. The cache allocates lines to correspond to 
regions in memory of the same size as the cache line, aligned on an address boundary equal to the 
cache-line size. For example, in a cache with 32-byte lines, the cache lines are aligned on 32-byte 
boundaries and byte addresses 0007h and 001Eh are both located in the same cache line. The size of a 
cache line is implementation dependent. Most implementations have either 32-byte or 64-byte cache 
lines. The implemented cache line size is reported by CPUID Fn8000_0005 and Fn8000_0006 for the 
various caches, as described in Appendix E of Volume 3.
The process of loading data into a cache is a cache-line fill. Even if only a single byte is requested, all 
bytes in a cache line are loaded from memory. Typically, a cache-line fill must remove (evict) an 
existing cache line to make room for the new line loaded from memory. This process is called cache-
line replacement. If the existing cache line was modified before the replacement, the processor 
performs a cache-line writeback to main memory when it performs the cache-line fill.
Cache-line writebacks help maintain coherency between the caches and main memory. Internally, the 
processor can also maintain cache coherency by internally probing (checking) the other caches and 
write buffers for a more recent version of the requested data. External devices can also check processor 
caches for more recent versions of data by externally probing the processor. Throughout this 
document, the term probe is used to refer to external probes, while internal probes are always qualified 
with the word internal.
Write buffers temporarily hold data writes when main memory or the caches are busy with other 
memory accesses. The existence of write buffers is implementation dependent.
Implementations of the architecture can use write-combining buffers if the order and size of non-
cacheable writes to main memory is not important to the operation of software. These buffers can 
combine multiple, individual writes to main memory and transfer the data in fewer bus transactions.
[AMD Public Use]
