64
System Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
3.2.5  Performance-Monitoring Registers
The time-stamp counter and performance-monitoring registers are useful in identifying performance 
bottlenecks. The number of performance counters can vary based on the implementation. These 
registers perform the following functions:
TSC Register.  This register is used to count processor-clock cycles. It can be read using the RDMSR 
instruction, or it can be read using the either of the read time-stamp counter instructions, RDTSC or 
RDTSCP. System software can make RDTSC or RDTSCP available for use by non-privileged 
software by clearing the time-stamp disable bit (CR4.TSD) to 0.
*PerfEvtSeln Registers.  These registers are used to specify the events counted by the corresponding 
performance counter, and to control other aspects of its operation.
*PerfCtrn Registers.  These registers are performance counters that hold a count of processor, 
northbridge, or L2 cache events or the duration of events, under the control of the corresponding 
*PerfEvtSeln register. Each *PerfCtrn register can be read using the RDMSR instruction, or they can 
be read using the read performance-monitor counter instruction, RDPMC. System software can make 
RDPMC available for use by non-privileged software by setting the performance-monitor counter 
enable bit (CR4.PCE) to 1.
Refer to Section 13.2.3 “Using Performance Counters,” on page 422 for more information on using 
these registers.
3.2.6  Machine-Check Registers
The machine-check registers control the detection and reporting of hardware machine-check errors. 
The types of errors that can be reported include cache-access errors, load-data and store-data errors, 
bus-parity errors, and ECC errors. Three types of machine-check MSRs are shown in Figure 3-10 on 
page 60.
The first type is global machine-check registers, which perform the following functions:
MCG_CAP Register.  This register identifies the machine-check capabilities supported by the 
processor.
MCG_CTL Register.  This register provides global control over machine-check-error reporting.
MCG_STATUS Register.  This register reports global status on detected machine-check errors.
The second type is error-reporting register banks, which report on machine-check errors associated 
with a specific processor unit (or group of processor units). There can be different numbers of register 
banks for each processor implementation, and each bank is numbered from 0 to i. The registers in each 
bank perform the following functions:
MCi_CTL Registers.  These registers control error-reporting.
MCi_STATUS Registers.  These registers report machine-check errors.
[AMD Public Use]
