424
Software Debug and Performance Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
subject to power-management related changes in processor frequency. CPUID Fn 
8000_0007h_EDX[TscInvariant] = 1 indicates that the TSC increment rate is a constant.
For more information on using the CPUID instruction to obtain processor implementation 
information, see Section 3.3, “Processor Feature Identification,” on page 71.
13.3
Instruction-Based Sampling
Instruction-Based Sampling (IBS) is a hardware facility that can be used to gather specific metrics 
related to processor instruction fetch and instruction execution activity. Data capture is performed by 
hardware at a sampling interval specified by values programmed in IBS sampling control registers. 
The IBS facility can be utilized by software to perform code profiling based on statistical sampling. 
There are two independent data gathering components of IBS: instruction fetch sampling and 
instruction execution sampling. Instruction fetch sampling provides information about instruction 
address translation look-aside buffer (ITLB) and instruction cache behavior for a randomly selected 
fetch block, under the control of the IBS Fetch Control Register. Instruction execution sampling 
provides information about instruction execution behavior by tracking the execution of a single 
operation (op) that is randomly selected, under the control of the IBS Execution Control Register.
When the programmed interval for fetch sampling has expired, the fetch sampling component of IBS 
selects and tags the next fetch block. IBS hardware records specific performance information about the 
tagged fetch. In a similar manner, when the programmed interval for op sampling has expired, the op 
sampling component of IBS selects and tags the next op being dispatched for execution. 
When data collection for the tagged fetch or op is complete, the hardware signals an interrupt. An 
interrupt handler can then read the performance information that was captured for the fetch or op in 
IBS MSRs, save it, and re-enable the hardware to take the next sample.
More information about the IBS facility and how software can use it to perform code profiling can be 
found in the Software Optimization Guide for your specific product. The Software Optimization Guide 
for AMD Family 15h Processors is order #47414. 
Support for the IBS feature is indicated by the CPUID Fn 8000_0001h_ECX[IBS]. For more 
information on using the CPUID instruction to obtain processor implementation information, see 
Section 3.3, “Processor Feature Identification,” on page 71.
13.3.1  IBS Fetch Sampling
When a processor fetches an instruction, it is actually reading a contiguous range of instruction bytes 
that contains the instruction from memory or from cache. This range of bytes loaded by the processor 
in one operation is called a fetch block. The size and address-alignment characteristics of the fetch 
block are implementation-dependent. In the following discussion, the term instruction fetch or simply 
fetch refers to this operation of reading a fetch block.
Instruction fetch sampling records the following performance information for each tagged fetch:
[AMD Public Use]
