System Instructions
177
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
SWAPGS exchanges the base-address value located in the KernelGSbase model-specific register 
(MSR address C000_0102h) with the base-address value located in the hidden portion of the GS 
selector register (GS.base). This exchange allows the system-kernel software to quickly access kernel 
data structures by using the GS segment-override prefix during memory references. 
The need for SwapGS arises from the requirement that, upon entry to the OS kernel, the kernel needs 
to obtain a 64-bit pointer to its essential data structures. When using SYSCALL to implement system 
calls, no kernel stack exists at the OS entry point. Neither is there a straightforward method to obtain a 
pointer to kernel structures, from which the kernel stack pointer could be read. Thus, the kernel cannot 
save GPRs or reference memory. SwapGS does not require any GPR or memory operands, so no 
registers need to be saved before using it. Similarly, when the OS kernel is entered via an interrupt or 
exception (where the kernel stack is already set up), SwapGS can be used to quickly get a pointer to the 
kernel data structures. 
See “FS and GS Registers in 64-Bit Mode” on page 80 for more information on using the GS.base 
register in 64-bit mode.
6.2
System Status and Control
System-status and system-control instructions are used to determine the features supported by a 
processor, gather information about the current execution state, and control the processor operating 
modes.
6.2.1  Processor Feature Identification (CPUID)
CPUID Instruction.  The CPUID instruction provides complete information about the processor 
implementation and its capabilities. Software operating at any privilege level can execute the CPUID 
instruction to collect this information. System software normally uses the CPUID instruction to 
determine which optional features are available so the system can be configured appropriately. See 
Section 3.3, “Processor Feature Identification,” on page 71.
6.2.2  Accessing Control Registers
MOV CRn Instructions.  The MOV CRn instructions can be used to copy data between the control 
registers and the general-purpose registers. These instructions are privileged and cause a general-
protection exception (#GP) if non-privileged software attempts to execute them.
LMSW and SMSW Instructions.  The machine status word is located in CR0 register bits 15:0. The 
load machine status word (LMSW) instruction writes only the least-significant four status-word bits 
(CR0[3:0]). All remaining status-word bits (CR0[15:4]) are left unmodified by the instruction. The 
instruction is privileged and causes a #GP to occur if non-privileged software attempts to execute it.
The store machine status word (SMSW) instruction stores all 16 status-word bits (CR0[15:0]) into the 
target GPR or memory location. The instruction is not privileged and can be executed by all software.
[AMD Public Use]
