Secure Virtual Machine
531
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
15.18
VMMCALL Instruction
This instruction is meant as a way for a guest to explicitly call the VMM. No CPL checks are 
performed, so the VMM can decide whether to make this instruction legal at the user-level or not.
If VMMCALL instruction is not intercepted, the instruction raises a #UD exception.
15.19
Paged Real Mode
To facilitate virtualization of real mode, the VMRUN instruction may legally load a guest CR0 value 
with PE = 0 but PG = 1. Likewise, the RSM instruction is permitted to return to paged real mode. This 
processor mode behaves in every way like real mode, with the exception that paging is applied. The 
intent is that the VMM run the guest in paged-real mode at CPL0, and with page faults intercepted. 
The VMM is responsible for setting up a shadow page table that maps guest physical memory to the 
appropriate system physical addresses.
The behavior of running a guest in paged real mode without intercepting page faults to the VMM is 
undefined.
15.20
Event Injection
The VMM can inject exceptions or interrupts (collectively referred to as events) into the guest by 
setting bits in the VMCB’s EVENTINJ field prior to executing the VMRUN instruction. The format of 
the field is shown in Figure 15-5. The encoding matches that of the EXITINTINFO field. When an 
event is injected by means of this mechanism, the VMRUN instruction causes the guest to take the 
specified exception or interrupt unconditionally before executing the first guest instruction.
Injected events are treated in every way as though they had occurred normally in the guest (in 
particular, they are recorded in EXITINTINFO) with the following exceptions:
•
Injected events are not subject to intercept checks. (Note, however, that if secondary exceptions
occur during delivery of an injected event, those exceptions are subject to exception intercepts.)
•
An injected NMI does not block delivery of further NMIs.
•
If the VMM attempts to inject an event that is impossible for the guest mode (e.g., a #BR exception
when the guest is in 64-bit mode), the event injection will fail and no guest state instructions will
be executed; VMRUN will immediately exit with an error code of VMEXIT_INVALID.
•
Injecting an exception (TYPE = 3) with vectors 3 or 4 behaves like a trap raised by INT3 and INTO
instructions, respectively, in which case the processor checks the DPL of the IDT descriptor before
dispatching to the handler.
•
Software interrupts cannot be properly injected if the processor does not support the NextRIP field.
Support is indicated by CPUID Fn8000_000A_EDX[NRIPS] = 1. Hypervisor software should
emulate the event injection of software interrupts if NextRIP is not supported. 
[AMD Public Use]
