664
Hardware Performance Monitoring and Control
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
17
Hardware Performance Monitoring and 
Control
The AMD64 architecture provides several mechanisms by which software can monitor and control 
processor performance to optimize power use. The following lists the facilities that are described in the 
sections that follow:
•
The P-state control interface allows dynamic control of performance states. See Section 17.1 
which follows immediately below.
•
Core performance boost (CPB) dynamically increases core clock rate beyond that defined for the 
P0 power state to achieve higher performance while maintaining power consumption below a 
preset level. See Section 17.2 on page 666.
•
The effective frequency interface provides a measure of the actual core clock rate over a specified 
period of time. See Section 17.3 on page 667.
•
The processor power reporting interface allows system software to measure average processor 
core power over a given time period. See Section 17.5 on page 669.
•
Collaborative Processor Performance Control (CPPC) provides a mechanism for improving 
performance and power efficiency in collaboration with Operating System Power Management 
software. See Section 17.6 on page 671.
17.1
P-State Control
P-states are operational performance states (states in which the processor is executing instructions, that 
is, running software) characterized by a unique frequency of operation for a CPU core. The P-state 
control interface supports dynamic P-state changes in up to 16 P-states, called P-states 0 through 15 or 
P0 though P15. P0 is the highest power, highest performance P-state; each ascending P-state number 
represents a lower-power, lower-performance state.
Core P-states are controlled by software. Each CPU core contains one set of P-state control registers. 
Software controls the P-states of each CPU core independently; however, hardware may include 
interdependencies that affect the P-state achieved by each core. 
Hardware provides the highest P-state value in the PstateMaxVal field of the P-State Current Limit 
Register. P-states may be limited to a lower performance value under certain conditions. The current 
P-state limit is dynamic and is specified in the CurPstateLimit field of the P-State Current Limit 
Register.
Software requests a core P-state change by writing a 4-bit index corresponding to the desired core P-
state number to the P-State Control Register of the appropriate core. For example, to request the P3 
state for core 0, software writes 3h to the core 0’s PstateCmd field in MSR C001_0062h. If the P-state 
value is greater than the value in PstateMaxVal, the value written is clipped to that value. 
[AMD Public Use]
