320
Machine Check Architecture
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
is attempting to initialize them. The status can reflect errors logged prior to a warm reset or 
errors recorded during the system power-up and boot process. Before clearing the 
MCi_STATUS registers, software should examine their contents and log any errors found.
-
After saving any valid error information contained in the MCi_STATUS, MCi_ADDR, and 
any implemented miscellaneous error information registers for each implemented reporting 
bank, software should clear all status fields in the MCi_STATUS register for each bank by 
writing all 0s to the register.
•
As a final step in the initialization process, system software should enable the machine-check 
exception by setting CR4[MCE] to 1.
A machine-check condition that occurs while CR4[MCE] is cleared will result in the processor core 
entering the shutdown state.
9.5
Using MCA Features
System software can detect and handle logged errors using three methods:
1. Polling
Software can periodically examine the machine-check status registers for errors, and save any
error information found. Uncorrected errors found during polling will require some type of
immediate response to initiate recovery or shutdown.
2. Enabling machine-check reporting
When reporting is enabled, any uncorrected error that occurs causes control to be transferred to the
machine-check exception handler. The exception handler can be designed for a specific processor
implementation or can be generalized to work on multiple implementations.
3. Setting up and enabling interrupts for deferred and corrected errors
In many implementations, MCA hardware can be configured to generate an interrupt hardware on
the detection of a deferred error or when a programmed corrected error threshold is reached.
These methods are not mutually exclusive.
9.5.1  Determining the Scope of Detected Errors
Table 9-4 details the actions that recovery software should take and the level of recovery possible 
based on status information returned in the MCi_STATUS and MCG_STATUS registers.
[AMD Public Use]
