600
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Pointer. Also, the VMRUN instruction will perform the following actions in addition to the standard 
VMRUN behavior: 
•
Calculate a checksum over guest state to verify integrity
•
Perform a VMLOAD to load additional guest register state
•
Load guest GPR state
•
Load guest FPU state
When a guest has SEV-ES enabled, the encrypted VM state save area definition is expanded to include 
all GPR and FPU state (see Appendix B). If any part of the VMRUN flow faults or if the integrity 
checksum fails to match, a #VMEXIT(VMEXIT_INVALID) is generated.
Note that if SEV-ES is enabled, the VMRUN instruction ignores bits 10:5 of the VMCB clean bits and 
always reloads the full guest state. 
Also note that for SEV-ES guests, while the full guest state is loaded on VMRUN only the minimal 
hypervisor state defined by the legacy VMRUN instruction (see Section 15.5.1) is saved to the host 
save area. The hypervisor itself should save its desired additional segment state and GPR values to the 
host save area since these values will be restored by hardware on a subsequent VMEXIT. Hardware 
does not automatically save host state such as FS, STAR, or GPR values from the hypervisor on a 
VMRUN. See Appendix B for a detailed breakdown of each piece of VMCB state.
Finally, note that event injection for SEV-ES guests is restricted. Software interrupts and exception 
vectors 3 and 4 may not be injected. If this is attempted, the VMRUN will fail with a 
VMEXIT_INVALID error code.
15.35.9  Automatic Exits
When an automatic exit event occurs while an SEV-ES enabled guest is executing, hardware 
automatically saves guest state to the encrypted save state area and restores hypervisor state from the 
host save area. Specifically, in addition to the standard state saved/restored by the VMEXIT flow, 
hardware will also perform the following steps:
•
Perform a VMSAVE to save additional guest register state
•
Save guest GPR state
•
Save guest FPU state
•
Calculate and store a checksum over the guest state for use in a subsequent VMRUN
•
Perform a VMLOAD to load additional host register state
•
Load host GPR state
•
Re-initialize FPU state to their reset values
The loading of host GPR state from the host save area is done using the format of the expanded VMCB 
described in Appendix B. All register state is either loaded from this location or re-initialized to default 
values so no guest register state is visible to the hypervisor.
[AMD Public Use]
