610
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
If a memory access results in a modification of the Accessed or Dirty bits in a page table entry, this 
page table modification is treated similarly to data write accesses by SEV-SNP. For any such page 
table modification access, the page size of the access is inherently 4KB.
If the virtual TOM feature (see Section 15.36.8) is enabled, then the Virtual TOM setting is used to 
determine the C-bit for a given guest access. Guest physical addresses below Virtual TOM are 
considered to have a C-bit set to 1.
The following page-fault error bits are set on an RMP check related #PF:
•
Bit 31 (RMP): Set to 1 if the fault was caused due to an RMP check or a VMPL check failure, 0
otherwise. All RMP violations described in this section will set this bit to 1.
Additionally, the following page-fault error bits may be set on a #VMEXIT(NPF) in EXITINFO1:
•
Bit 34 (ENC): Set to 1 if the guest’s effective C-bit was 1, 0 otherwise.
•
Bit 35 (SIZEM): Set to 1 if the fault was caused by a size mismatch between PVALIDATE or
RMPADJUST and the RMP, 0 otherwise.
•
Bit 36 (VMPL): Set to 1 if the fault was caused by a VMPL permission check failure, 0 otherwise.
•
Bit 37 (SSS): Set to VMPL permission mask SSS (bit 4) value if VmplSSS is enabled.
The effective C-bit is always a 1 on any guest instruction fetch, page table access, or data write to 
private (C=1) memory.
All RMP checks described in this section occur after page table and nested page table access checks 
and have lower priority than existing paging checks. Table 15-37 reflects the relative priority of RMP 
checks. Namely, VMPL checks have the lowest priority, preceded by page validation checks. For 
example, if a guest access fails the Page-Size check and the Validated check, a #VMEXIT(NPF) will 
occur instead of a #VC since the Page-Size check has priority over the page validation check.
A failure of the page validation check results in a #VC with error code PAGE_NOT_VALIDATED 
(0x404). The faulting guest virtual address is saved to CR2 when this error occurs.
15.36.11  Large Page Management 
The hypervisor may need to convert a 2MB page assigned to a guest into 4KB pages. This conversion 
is called page smashing and requires the hypervisor to alter the RMP. The hypervisor can use 
RMPUPDATE to alter the size of the page in the RMP, but this will clear the validated bit. 
To convert a 2MB page into 4KB pages without altering the validated status of the region, the 
hypervisor may use the PSMASH instruction. PSMASH takes a 2MB aligned system physical address 
and smashes the page while preserving the Validated bit in the RMP. After PSMASH successfully 
completes, the RMP entries of the resulting 4KB pages have the following contents:
•
Consecutive values in the Guest_Physical_Address fields
•
Page_Size set to 0 indicating 4KB pages
•
All other RMP fields copied from the original 2MB page RMP entry
[AMD Public Use]
