Secure Virtual Machine
589
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
data. The guest page tables, managed by the guest, may mark data memory pages as either private or 
shared, thus allowing selected pages to be shared outside the guest. Private memory is encrypted using 
a guest-specific key, while shared memory is accessible to the hypervisor.
15.34.1  Determining Support for SEV
Support for memory encryption features is reported in CPUID 8000_001F[EAX] as described in 
Section 7.10.1, “Determining Support for Secure Memory Encryption,” on page 238. Bit 1 indicates 
support for Secure Encrypted Virtualization. 
When memory encryption features are present, CPUID 8000_001F[EBX] and 8000_001F[ECX] 
supply additional information regarding the use of memory encryption, such as the number of keys 
supported simultaneously and which page table bit is used to mark pages as encrypted. Additionally, in 
some implementations, the physical address size of the processor may be reduced when memory 
encryption features are enabled, for example from 48 to 43 bits. In this example, physical address bits 
47:43 would be treated as reserved except where otherwise indicated. When memory encryption is 
supported in an implementation, CPUID 8000_001F[EBX] reports any physical address size reduction 
present. Bits reserved in this mode are treated the same as other page table reserved bits, and will 
generate a page fault if found to be non-zero when used for address translation.
Full CPUID details for memory encryption features may be found in Volume 3, section E.4.17.
15.34.2  Key Management
Under the memory encryption extensions defined here, each SEV-enabled guest virtual machine is 
associated with a memory encryption key, and the SME mode (if used, see Section 7.10 on page 238) 
is associated with a separate key. Key management for the SEV feature is not handled by the CPU but 
rather by a separate processor known as the AMD Secure Processor (AMD-SP) which is present on 
AMD SOCs. A detailed discussion of AMD-SP operation is beyond the scope of this manual. 
CPU software is not aware of the values of these keys but the hypervisor should coordinate the loading 
of virtual machine keys through the AMD-SP driver. This coordination will also determine which 
ASID the hypervisor should use for a particular guest. Under SEV, the ASID is used as the key index 
that identifies which encryption key is used to encrypt/decrypt memory traffic associated with that 
SEV-enabled guest. Encryption keys themselves are never visible to CPU software and are never 
stored off-chip in the clear.
15.34.3  Enabling SEV
Prior to starting an encrypted VM, software must set MemEncryptionModEn to 1 in the SYSCFG 
MSR as described in Section 7.10.2, “Enabling Memory Encryption Extensions,” on page 238. SEV 
may then be enabled on a specific virtual machine during the VMRUN instruction if the hypervisor 
sets the SEV enable (bit 1) in VMCB offset 090h.
When SEV is enabled in VMCB, the following additional consistency checks are performed during 
VMRUN:
•
Nested paging must be enabled
[AMD Public Use]
