578
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
hardware uses the host physical APIC ID in the table entry to send a doorbell signal to the 
corresponding processor core to signal that an interrupt needs to be processed.
15.29.7  AVIC CPUID Feature Flags
A CPUID feature bit is used indicate support for AVIC on a specific hardware implementation. CPUID 
Fn8000_000A_EDX[AVIC] (bit 13) = 1 indicates support for the AVIC architecture on that hardware. 
Additionally, CPUID Fn8000_000A_EDX[x2AVIC] (bit 18) = 1 indicates support for the AVIC 
architecture when the guest is using x2APIC MSR interface. 
See Section 3.3, “Processor Feature Identification,” on page 71 for more information on using the 
CPUID instruction.
15.29.8  New Processor Mechanisms
In order to support the direct injection of interrupts into the guest and to accelerate critical vAPIC 
functions, new hardware mechanisms are implemented in the processor.
15.29.8.1  Special Trap/Fault Handling for vAPIC Accesses
To virtualize the local APIC utilized by the guest to generate and process interrupts, all read and write 
accesses by the guest virtual processor to its local APIC registers are redirected to the vAPIC backing 
page. Most reads and many writes to this guest physical address range read or write the contents of 
memory locations within the vAPIC backing page at the corresponding offset. 
To support proper handling and emulation of the guest local APIC, the processor provides permissions 
filtering hardware (Refer to Figure 15-15.) that detects and intercepts accesses to specific offsets 
(representing APIC registers) within the vAPIC backing page. This hardware either allows the access, 
blocks the access and causes a #VMEXIT (fault behavior), or allows the access and then causes a 
#VMEXIT (trap behavior).
Hardware directly handles the side effects of guest writes to the TPR and EOI registers. Writes to the 
ICRL register with simple functional side effects such as the generation of a directed IPI or a self-IPI 
request are handled directly. Values written to the ICRL defined to initiate more complex behavior 
cause a #VMEXIT to allow the VMM to emulate the function. A guest write to the ICRH register has 
no immediate hardware side effect and is allowed.
Most other write access attempts within the vAPIC register address range cause a #VMEXIT with trap 
or fault behavior allowing the VMM to emulate the function of that register. See Table 15-22 for more 
detail.
Reads and writes to locations within the vAPIC backing page, but outside the offset range of defined 
vAPIC registers are allowed to complete.
15.29.8.2  Doorbell Mechanism
Each core provides a doorbell mechanism that is used by other cores (for IPIs) and the IOMMU (for 
device interrupts) to signal to the VMM of the target physical core that a virtual interrupt requires 
[AMD Public Use]
