48
System Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
Virtualized, maskable, external-interrupt control and notification using the VIF and VIP bits in the
RFLAGS register. Virtualizing affects the operation of several instructions that manipulate the
RFLAGS.IF bit. 
•
Selective intercept of software interrupts (INTn instructions) using the interrupt-redirection
bitmap in the TSS. 
Protected-Mode Virtual Interrupts (PVI).  Bit 1. Setting PVI to 1 enables support for protected-
mode virtual interrupts. Clearing PVI to 0 disables this support. When PVI=1, hardware support of 
two bits in the RFLAGS register, VIF and VIP, is enabled. 
Only the STI and CLI instructions are affected by enabling PVI. Unlike the case when CR0.VME=1, 
the interrupt-redirection bitmap in the TSS cannot be used for selective INTn interception.
PVI enhancements are also supported in long mode. See Section 8.10 “Virtual Interrupts,” on 
page 288 for more information on using PVI.
Time-Stamp Disable (TSD).  Bit 2. The TSD bit allows software to control the privilege level at 
which the time-stamp counter can be read. When TSD is cleared to 0, software running at any privilege 
level can read the time-stamp counter using the RDTSC or RDTSCP instructions. When TSD is set to 
1, only software running at privilege-level 0 can execute the RDTSC or RDTSCP instructions.
Debugging Extensions (DE).  Bit 3. Setting the DE bit to 1 enables the I/O breakpoint capability and 
enforces treatment of the DR4 and DR5 registers as reserved. Software that accesses DR4 or DR5 
when DE=1 causes a invalid opcode exception (#UD).
When the DE bit is cleared to 0, I/O breakpoint capabilities are disabled. Software references to the 
DR4 and DR5 registers are aliased to the DR6 and DR7 registers, respectively.
Page-Size Extensions (PSE).  Bit 4. Setting PSE to 1 enables the use of 4-Mbyte physical pages. 
With PSE=1, the physical-page size is selected between 4 Kbytes and 4 Mbytes using the page-
directory entry page-size field (PS). Clearing PSE to 0 disables the use of 4-Mbyte physical pages and 
restricts all physical pages to 4 Kbytes.
The PSE bit has no effect when physical-address extensions are enabled (CR4.PAE=1). Because long 
mode requires CR4.PAE=1, the PSE bit is ignored when the processor is running in long mode.
See Section “4-Mbyte Page Translation,” on page 134 for more information on 4-Mbyte page 
translation.
Physical-Address Extension (PAE).  Bit 5. Setting PAE to 1 enables the use of physical-address 
extensions and 2-Mbyte physical pages. Clearing PAE to 0 disables these features.
With PAE=1, the page-translation data structures are expanded from 32 bits to 64 bits, allowing the 
translation of up to 52-bit physical addresses. Also, the physical-page size is selectable between 
4 Kbytes and 2 Mbytes using the page-directory-entry page-size field (PS). Long mode requires PAE 
to be enabled in order to use the 64-bit page-translation data structures to translate 64-bit virtual 
addresses to 52-bit physical addresses.
[AMD Public Use]
