Software Debug and Performance Resources
469
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Table 13-11.
LWPCB Filters Fields
Bits
Field
Description
7:0
MinLatency
Minimum latency for a cache-related event to be eligible for LWP counting. Applies 
to all cache-related events being monitored. MinLatency is multiplied by 16 to get 
the actual latency in cycles, providing less resolution but a larger range for filtering. 
An implementation may have a maximum for the latency value. If MinLatency*16 
exceeds this maximum value, the maximum is used instead. A value of 0 disables 
filtering by latency. 
Ignored if no cache latency event is enabled or if the CPUID LwpCacheLatency bit 
is 0 to indicate that the implementation does not filter by latency (use the CLF bits to 
get a similar effect). At least one of these mechanisms is supported if any cache miss 
events are supported.
8
CLF
Cache level filtering.
1—Enables filtering cache-related events by the cache level or memory level that 
returned the data. It enables the next 4 bits. Cache-related events are only 
eligible for counting if the bit describing the memory level is on.
0—Disables cache level filtering. The next 4 bits are ignored, and any cache or 
memory level is eligible. 
Ignored if no cache latency event is enabled or if the CPUID LwpCacheLevels bit is 
0 to indicate that the implementation does not filter by cache level (use the 
MinLatency field to get a similar effect). At least one of these mechanisms is 
supported if any cache miss events are supported.
9
NBC
Northbridge cache events.
1—Count cache-related events that are satisfied from data held in a cache that 
resides on the Northbridge.
0—Ignore Northbridge cache events
Ignored if CLF is 0.
10
RDC
Remote data cache events.
1—Count cache-related events that are satisfied from data held in a remote data 
cache.
0—Ignore remote cache events.
Ignored if CLF is 0.
11
RAM
DRAM cache events.
1—Count cache-related events that are satisfied from DRAM.
0—Ignore DRAM cache events.
Ignored if CLF is 0.
12
OTH
Other cache events.
1—Count cache-related events that are satisfied from other sources, such as MMIO, 
Config space, PCI space, or APIC.
0—Ignore such cache events
Ignored if CLF is 0.
24:13
Reserved
[AMD Public Use]
