Processor Initialization and Long Mode Activation
491
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
2. In any order:
-
Enable physical-address extensions by setting CR4.PAE to 1. Long mode requires the use of
physical-address extensions (PAE) in order to support physical-address sizes greater than 32
bits. Physical-address extensions must be enabled before enabling paging.
-
Load CR3 with the physical base-address of the level-4 page-map-table (PML4) or level-5
page-map-table (PML5). See “Long-Mode Page Translation” on page 139 for details on
creating the 4-level or 5-level page translation tables required by long mode.
-
Enable long mode by setting EFER.LME to 1.
3. Enable paging by setting CR0.PG to 1. This causes the processor to set the EFER.LMA bit to 1.
The instruction following the MOV CR0 that enables paging must be a branch, and both the MOV
CR0 and the following branch instruction must be located in an identity-mapped page.
14.6.2  Consistency Checks
The processor performs long-mode consistency checks whenever software attempts to modify any of 
the control bits directly involved in activating long mode (EFER.LME, CR0.PG, and CR4.PAE). A 
general-protection exception (#GP) occurs when a consistency check fails. Long-mode consistency 
checks ensure that the processor does not enter an undefined mode or state that results in unpredictable 
behavior.
Long-mode consistency checks cause a general-protection exception (#GP) to occur if:
•
An attempt is made to enable or disable long mode while paging is enabled.
•
Long mode is enabled, and an attempt is made to enable paging before enabling physical-address
extensions (PAE).
•
Long mode is enabled, and an attempt is made to enable paging while CS.L=1.
•
Long mode is active and an attempt is made to disable physical-address extensions (PAE).
Table 14-5 summarizes the long-mode consistency checks made during control-bit transitions.
14.6.3  Updating System Descriptor Table References
Immediately after activating long mode, the system-descriptor-table registers (GDTR, LDTR, IDTR, 
TR) continue to reference legacy descriptor tables. The tables referenced by these descriptors all reside 
in the lower 4 Gbytes of virtual-address space. After activating long mode, 64-bit operating-system 
Table 14-5.
Long-Mode Consistency Checks
Control Bit
Transition
Check
EFER.LME
0 ® 1
If (CR0.PG=1) then #GP(0)
1 ® 0
If (CR0.PG=1) then #GP(0)
CR0.PG
0 ® 1
If ((EFER.LME=1) & (CR4.PAE=0) then #GP(0)
If ((EFER.LME=1) & (CS.L=1)) then #GP(0)
CR4.PAE
1 ® 0
If (EFER.LMA=1) then #GP(0)
[AMD Public Use]
