Segmented Virtual Memory
109
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
4.11
Control-Transfer Privilege Checks
Control transfers between code segments (also called far control transfers) cause the processor to 
perform privilege checks to determine whether the source program is allowed to transfer control to the 
target program. If the privilege checks pass, access to the target code-segment is granted. When access 
is granted, the target code-segment selector is loaded into the CS register. The rIP register is updated 
with the target CS offset taken from either the far-pointer operand or the gate descriptor. Privilege 
checks are not performed during near control transfers because such transfers do not change 
segments.
The following mechanisms can be used by software to perform far control transfers:
•
System-software control transfers using the system-call and system-return instructions. See
“SYSCALL and SYSRET” on page 174 and “SYSENTER and SYSEXIT (Legacy Mode Only)”
on page 176 for more information on these instructions. SYSCALL and SYSRET are the preferred
method of performing control transfers in long mode. SYSENTER and SYSEXIT are not supported
in long mode.
•
Direct control transfers using CALL and JMP instructions. These are discussed in the next section,
“Direct Control Transfers.”
•
Call-gate control transfers using CALL and JMP instructions. These are discussed in “Control
Transfers Through Call Gates” on page 113.
•
Return control transfers using the RET instruction. These are discussed in “Return Control
Transfers” on page 120.
•
Interrupts and exceptions, including the INTn and IRET instructions. These are discussed in
Chapter 8, “Exceptions and Interrupts.”
•
Task switches initiated by CALL and JMP instructions. Task switches are discussed in Chapter 12,
“Task Management.” The hardware task-switch mechanism is not supported in long mode.
4.11.1  Direct Control Transfers
A direct control transfer occurs when software executes a far-CALL or a far-JMP instruction without 
using a call gate. The privilege checks and type of access allowed as a result of a direct control transfer 
depends on whether the target code segment is conforming or nonconforming. The code-segment-
descriptor conforming (C) bit indicates whether or not the target code-segment is conforming (see 
“Conforming (C) Bit” on page 91 for more information on the conforming bit).
Privilege levels are not changed as a result of a direct control transfer. Program stacks are not 
automatically switched by the processor as they are with privilege-changing control transfers through 
call gates (see “Stack Switching” on page 117 for more information on automatic stack switching 
during privilege-changing control transfers).
Nonconforming Code Segments.  Software can perform a direct control transfer to a 
nonconforming code segment only if the target code-segment descriptor DPL and the CPL are equal 
and the RPL is less than or equal to the CPL. Software must use a call gate to transfer control to a 
[AMD Public Use]
