702
Platform Quality of Service (PQOS) Extension
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
read with the U bit set when that RMID is in use by a processor can be considered 0 when calculating 
the difference with a subsequent read. The U bit will not be set when a counter rolls over. For these 
implementations, if the U bit is clear on QM_CTR read for a given RMID and event, the MBM 
hardware has been counting the event for that RMID continuously without interruption since the 
previous QM_CTR read for that RMID and that event.
A given implementation may have insufficient hardware to simultaneously track the bandwidth for all 
RMID values that the hardware supports. If an attempt is made to read a Bandwidth Count for an 
RMID that has been impacted by these hardware limitations, the U bit of the QM_CTR will be set 
when the counter is read. Subsequent QM_CTR reads for that RMID and Event may return a value 
with the U bit clear. Potential causes of the U bit being set include (but are not limited to):
•
RMID is not currently tracked by the hardware.
•
RMID was not tracked by the hardware at some time since it was last read.
•
RMID has not been read since it started being tracked by the hardware.
For bandwidth monitoring events which continually increment the counter, when the maximum count 
is reached the counter will roll over and continue counting. It is the software’s responsibility to read 
the count often enough to avoid having the count roll over twice between reads. The initial counter 
size is 24 bits and retrieving the value at 1Hz or faster is sufficient to ensure at most one rollover per 
sampling period.
19.3.3.1  Legacy L3 Cache Bandwidth Monitoring
In early implementations where BMEC is not supported, the types of L3 transactions counted by the 
hardware for EvtID 2  and EvtID 3 are fixed. EvtID 2 tracks total L3 memory bandwidth and EvtID 3 
tracks local L3 memory bandwidth. The precise transactions counted by each EvtID depends on the PQOS 
version. Table 19-8specifies which transactions are counted by a given EvtID for implementations that do 
not support BMEC. These implementations are identified by the PQOS Version as determined by the 
Family/Model of the product (see Table 19-2 on page 693).
System software reads the total and local bandwidth using the QM_EVTSEL and QM_CTR registers. 
The bandwidth metric can be read by setting the following fields in QM_EVTSEL: 
[ExtendedEvtID]=0, [EvtID]={2,3}, and setting [RMID] to the desired RMID. Reading QM_CTR 
will then return the contents of the specified event. The E bit will be set if an illegal RMID was 
specified in QM_EVTSEL.
Table 19-8.
Transaction Types and EvtIDs
Transaction Type
V1.0 EvtIDs
V2.0 EvtIDs
Read to Local NUMA Domain
2,3
2,3
Read to Non-Local NUMA Domain
2
2
Non-Temporal Write to Local NUMA Domain
N/A
2,3
Non-Temporal Write to Non-Local NUMA Domain
N/A
2
[AMD Public Use]
