Secure Virtual Machine
551
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
using the nested page tables. Nested page table level faults can occur on these accesses, including
write faults due to setting of accessed and dirty bits in the guest page table.
•
Final Guest-Physical Page—once a guest linear to guest physical mapping is known, guest
permissions can be checked. If the guest page tables allow the access, the guest physical address is
walked in the nested page tables to find the system physical address.
Unless Read Only Guest Page Tables is enabled for a guest, table walks for guest page tables are 
always treated as user writes at the nested page table level. For this reason,
•
the page must be writable by user at the nested page table level, or else a #VMEXIT(NPF) is
raised, and
•
the dirty and accessed bits are always set in the nested page table entries that were touched during
nested page table walks for guest page table entries.
A table walk for the guest page itself is always treated as a user access at the nested page table level, 
but is treated as a data read, data write, or code read, depending on the guest access.
CPUID Fn8000000A_EDX[ROGPT] (bit 21) = 1 indicates support for Read Only Guest Page Tables. 
Read Only Guest Page Tables is enabled for a guest by setting VMCB bit 6 at offset 90h. When Read 
Only Guest Page Tables is enabled, guest page table accesses are treated as writes at the nested page 
table level only when an access or dirty bit update in a guest page table is required, thus allowing a 
hypervisor to map guest page tables into read-only nested pages. 
If the guest has paging disabled (gCR0.PG = 0), there are no guest page table entries to be translated in 
the nested page tables. In this case, the final guest-physical address is equal to the guest-linear address, 
and is still translated in the nested page tables.
15.25.6  Nested versus Guest Page Faults, Fault Ordering
In nested paging, page faults can be raised at either the guest or nested page table level. Nested walks 
proceed in the following order; faults are generated in the same order:
1. Walk the guest page table entries in the nested page table. Dirty/Accessed bits are set as needed in
the nested page table. Any nested page table faults result in #VMEXIT(NPF).
2. As the guest page table walk proceeds from the top of the page table to the last entry, any not-
present entries or reserved bits in the guest page table entries at each level of the guest walk cause
#PF in the guest. Guest dirty and accessed bits are set as needed in the guest page tables during the
walk. Steps 1 and 2 are repeated for each level of the guest page table that is traversed.
3. Once the guest physical address for the guest access has been determined, check the guest
permissions; any fault at this point causes a #PF in the guest.
4. Perform the final translation from guest physical to system physical using the nested page table;
any fault during this translation results in a #VMEXIT(NPF).
Nested page faults are entirely a function of the nested page table and VMM processor mode. Nested 
faults cause a #VMEXIT(NPF) to the VMM. The faulting guest physical address is saved in the 
VMCB's EXITINFO2 field; EXITINFO1 delivers an error code similar to a #PF error code:
[AMD Public Use]
