216
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Software can determine the size of the reserved range it wishes to lock in bytes and allocate as many 
L3-ways as needed by programming the WayMask field in MSR C001_109Ah. Software must set 
CR0.CD on all logical processors sharing the L3 cache and execute the WBINVD instruction to flush 
the L3 cache before enabling the Range Reservation feature. If the size of the reserved range is less 
than the number of bytes of L3 cache allocated by the WayMask field in MSR C001_109Ah, the 
reserved range will remain “locked” in cache. The reserved range follows coherency rules around 
evictions, probes, and cache flushes. If the size of the reserved range does not fit in the allocated L3 
ways as programmed in the WayMask field in MSR C001_109Ah, the cache lines within the reserved 
range are replaced using normal L3 cache replacement policy, in those allocated L3 ways. However, 
the reserved region is only used by cache lines in the reserved range.
Range Reservation Operation.  The scope of L3 range reservation is limited to an L3 cache and the 
cores sharing that L3 cache. Setting up a reserved range reserves a portion of the corresponding cache 
for use by a range of system physical addresses but does not bring the data or instructions at those 
addresses into the cache. The cache is filled with the data or instructions from the reserved address 
region as those addresses are accessed by the associated logical processors, either through explicit 
references by software, by hardware-based prefetching or by speculative execution of instructions 
which may or may not eventually retire. After the L3 range reservation is enabled, the cache lines with 
addresses in the reserved range are cached in the reserved region of the L3 cache. The cache lines with 
addresses outside the reserved range are cached in the unreserved region of the L3 cache.
Whether L3 range reservation is enabled or disabled, a cache line in the reserved range will still 
behave coherently with respect to all coherent operations. Placing a cache line in a reserved location 
does not exempt it from the rules of coherency. In case where a cache line outside the reserved range is 
present in the reserved region at the time the L3 range reservation feature is enabled or where a cache 
line in the reserved range is present in unreserved regions of the cache, normal coherent accesses by 
any processor in the system will still read the correct, current data from these locations. 
Programming Considerations.  The Range Reservation configuration registers should not be 
modified while cacheable traffic is in flight. The recommended way to meet this requirement is to set 
the CR0.CD bit on all logical processors which are connected to the cache being configured. For the 
L3 cache, that includes all the logical processors sharing an L3 cache and for the L2 cache that 
includes the two logical processors which share a physical core and L2 cache.
If a given range is reserved in multiple L3 caches in a system, the cache lines can be cached in each of 
them as long as none of the logical processors accessing the data modify it. Modifying the cache lines 
will remove them from all other caches. However, once the modification is complete the cache lines 
can once again be re-cached in multiple caches if accessed by those processors. The cache lines thus 
accessed are again placed in the reserved region of the L3 cache upon access. It is not necessary to 
disable and re-enable the address range in order to re-establish the reserved region; the affected 
addresses will be brought into the reserved cache regions again as they are accessed, although the 
initial accesses to those ranges will incur the latency penalty associated with retrieving the data or 
instructions from memory or another cache.
Setting up a reserved range does not affect the cacheability rules of the addresses in that range. For 
example, if the page tables specify that the memory type for a page is UC, including that page within a 
[AMD Public Use]
