Segmented Virtual Memory
121
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
The operand size of a far return determines the size of stack pops when switching stacks. If a far return 
is used in 64-bit mode to return from a prior call through a long-mode call gate, the far return must use 
a 64-bit operand size. The 64-bit operand size allows the far return to properly read the stack 
established previously by the far call.
Nested Returns to 64-Bit Mode Procedures.  In long mode, a far call that changes privilege levels 
causes the SS register to be loaded with a null selector (this is the same action taken by an interrupt in 
long mode). If the called procedure performs another far call to a higher-privileged procedure, or is 
interrupted, the null SS selector is pushed onto the stack frame, and another null selector is loaded into 
the SS register. Using a null selector in this way allows the processor to properly handle returns nested 
within 64-bit-mode procedures and interrupt handlers. 
Normally, a RET that pops a null selector into the SS register causes a general-protection exception 
(#GP) to occur. However, in long mode, the null selector acts as a flag indicating the existence of 
nested interrupt handlers or other privileged software in 64-bit mode. Long mode allows RET to pop a 
null selector into SS from the stack under the following conditions: 
•
The target mode is 64-bit mode.
•
The target CPL is less than 3.
In this case, the processor does not load an SS descriptor, and the null selector is loaded into SS 
without causing a #GP exception.
4.12
Limit Checks
Except in 64-bit mode, limit checks are performed by all instructions that reference memory. Limit 
checks detect attempts to access memory outside the current segment boundary, attempts at executing 
instructions outside the current code segment, and indexing outside the current descriptor table. If an 
instruction fails a limit check, either (1) a general-protection exception occurs for all other segment-
limit violations or (2) a stack-fault exception occurs for stack-segment limit violations.
In 64-bit mode, segment limits are not checked during accesses to any segment referenced by the CS, 
DS, ES, FS, GS, and SS selector registers. Instead, the processor checks that the virtual addresses used 
to reference memory are in canonical-address form. In 64-bit mode, as with legacy mode and 
compatibility mode, descriptor-table limits are checked.
4.12.1  Determining Limit Violations
To determine segment-limit violations, the processor checks a virtual (linear) address to see if it falls 
outside the valid range of segment offsets determined by the segment-limit field in the descriptor. If 
any part of an operand or instruction falls outside the segment-offset range, a limit violation occurs. 
For example, a doubleword access, two bytes from an upper segment boundary, causes a segment 
violation because half of the doubleword is outside the segment.
[AMD Public Use]
