Secure Virtual Machine
529
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
•
CR4—PGE, PAE, PSE.
•
EFER—NXE, LMA, LME.
15.16.1  TLB Flush
TLB flush operations function identically whether or not SVM is enabled (e.g., MOV CR3 instruction 
flushes non-global mappings, whereas MOV CR4 instruction flushes global and non-global 
mappings). TLB flush operations must not be assumed to affect all ASIDs. If a VMM sets the intercept 
bit for any guest action that would have flushed the TLB, the #VMEXIT intercept occurs and the TLB 
is not flushed; it is the VMM's responsibility to flush the TLB appropriately. In implementations that 
do not provide a way to selectively flush all translations of a single specified ASID, software may 
effectively flush the guest's TLB entries by allocating a new ASID for the guest and not reusing the old 
ASID until the entire TLB has been flushed at least once.
The TLB_CONTROL field in the VMCB provides the commands specified by the control byte 
encodings shown in Table 15-9. The first two commands are available on all processors that support 
SVM; support for the other commands is optional and is indicated by 
CPUID Fn8000_000A_EDX[FlushByAsid] = 1.
When the VMM sets the TLB_CONTROL field to 1, the VMRUN instruction flushes the TLB for all 
ASIDs, for both global and non-global pages. The VMRUN instruction reads, but does not change, the 
value of the TLB_CONTROL field.
A MOV CR3 instruction, a task switch that changes CR3, or clearing or setting CR0.PG or bits PGE, 
PAE, PSE of CR4 affects only the TLB entries belonging to the current ASID, regardless of whether 
the operation occurred in host or guest mode. The current ASID is 0 when the CPU is not inside a guest 
context.
All TLB entries belonging to all ASIDs are flushed by SMI, RSM, MTRR modifications, IORR 
modifications, and access to other system MSRs that affect address translation.
If a hypervisor modifies a nested page table by decreasing permission levels, clearing present bits, or 
changing address translations and intends to return to the same ASID, it should use either TLB 
command 011b or 001b.
Table 15-9.
TLB Control Byte Encodings
Encoding
Function Definition
00h
Do not flush
01h
Flush entire TLB (Should be used only on legacy hardware.)
03h
Flush this guest's TLB entries
07h
Flush this guest's non-global TLB entries
Note: All encodings not defined in this table are reserved.
[AMD Public Use]
