System-Programming Overview
3
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Linear (Virtual) Addresses.  The segment-selector portion of a logical address specifies a segment-
descriptor entry in either the global or local descriptor table. The specified segment-descriptor entry 
contains the segment-base address, which is the starting location of the segment in linear-address 
space. A linear address is formed by adding the segment-base address to the effective address 
(segment offset), which creates a reference to any byte location within the supported linear-address 
space. Linear addresses are often referred to as virtual addresses, and both terms are used 
interchangeably throughout this document.
Linear Address = Segment Base Address + Effective Address
When the flat-memory model is used—as in 64-bit mode—a segment-base address is treated as 0. In 
this case, the linear address is identical to the effective address. In long mode, linear addresses must be 
in canonical address form, as described in “Canonical Address Form” on page 4.
Physical Addresses.  A physical address is a reference into the physical-address space, typically 
main memory. Physical addresses are translated from virtual addresses using page-translation 
mechanisms. See “Paging” on page 7 for information on how the paging mechanism is used for 
virtual-address to physical-address translation. When the paging mechanism is not enabled, the virtual 
(linear) address is used as the physical address.
1.1.2  Memory Organization
The AMD64 architecture organizes memory into virtual memory and physical memory. Virtual-
memory and physical-memory spaces can be (and usually are) different in size. Generally, the virtual-
address space is much larger than physical-address memory. System software relocates applications 
and data between physical memory and the system hard disk to make it appear that much more 
memory is available than really exists. System software then uses the hardware memory-management 
mechanisms to map the larger virtual-address space into the smaller physical-address space.
Virtual Memory.  Software uses virtual addresses to access locations within the virtual-memory 
space. System software is responsible for managing the relocation of applications and data in virtual-
memory space using segment-memory management. System software is also responsible for mapping 
virtual memory to physical memory through the use of page translation. The AMD64 architecture 
supports different virtual-memory sizes using the following address-translation modes:
•
Protected Mode—This mode supports 4 gigabytes of virtual-address space using 32-bit virtual 
addresses.
•
Long Mode—This mode supports 16 exabytes of virtual-address space using 64-bit virtual 
addresses. A given implementation may however support less than this, as reported by the CPUID 
feature identification facility.
[AMD Public Use]
