324
System-Management Mode
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
10
System-Management Mode
System-management mode (SMM) is an operating mode designed for system-control activities like 
power management. Normally, these activities are transparent to conventional operating systems and 
applications. SMM is used by platform firmware and specialized low-level device drivers, rather than 
the operating system.
The SMM interrupt-handling mechanism differs substantially from the standard interrupt-handling 
mechanism described in Chapter 8, “Exceptions and Interrupts.” SMM is entered using a special 
external interrupt called the system-management interrupt (SMI). After an SMI is received by the 
processor, the processor saves the processor state in a separate address space, called SMRAM. The 
SMM-handler software and data structures are also located in the SMRAM space. Interrupts and 
exceptions that ordinarily cause control transfers to the operating system are disabled when SMM is 
entered. The processor exits SMM, restores the saved processor state, and resumes normal execution 
by using a special instruction, RSM.
In SMM, address translation is disabled and addressing is similar to real mode. SMM programs can 
address up to 4 Gbytes of physical memory. See “SMM Operating-Environment” on page 334 for 
additional information on memory addressing in SMM.
The following sections describe the components of the SMM mechanism:
•
“SMM Resources” on page 325—this section describes SMRAM, the SMRAM save-state area
used to hold the processor state, and special SMRAM save-state entries used in support of SMM.
•
“Using SMM” on page 334—this section describes the mechanism of entering and exiting SMM.
It also describes SMM memory allocation, addressing, and interrupts and exceptions.
Of these mechanisms, only the format of the SMRAM save-state area differs between the AMD64 
architecture and the legacy architecture.
Note: Model-independent aspects of SMM operation are described here; see the BIOS and Kernel 
Developer’s Guide (BKDG) or Processor Programming Reference Manual (PPR)   of a given 
processor family for possible model-specific details.
10.1
SMM Differences
There are functional differences between the SMM support in the AMD64 architecture and the SMM 
support found in previous architectures. These are:
•
The SMRAM state-save area layout is changed to hold the 64-bit processor state.
•
The initial processor state upon entering SMM is expanded to reflect the 64-bit nature of the
processor.
•
New conditions exist that can cause a processor shutdown while in SMM.
[AMD Public Use]
