Memory System
209
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
(bit 4 in CR3) controls the cacheability of the highest-level page table in the page-translation 
hierarchy.
Page-Level Writethrough Enable.  Bit 3 of all paging data-structure entries is the page-level 
writethrough enable control (PWT). When a data-structure-entry PWT bit is cleared to 0, the page 
table or physical page pointed to by that entry has a writeback caching policy. When the PWT bit is set 
to 1, the page table or physical page has a writethrough caching policy. The PWT bit in the paging 
data-structure base-register (bit 3 in CR3) controls the caching policy of the highest-level page table in 
the page-translation hierarchy.
The corresponding PCD bit must be cleared to 0 (page caching enabled) for the PWT bit to have an 
effect.
Memory Typing.  Two mechanisms are provided for software to control access to and cacheability of 
specific memory regions: 
•
The memory-type range registers (MTRRs) control cacheability based on physical addresses. See
“MTRRs” on page 218 for more information on the use of MTRRs.
•
The page-attribute table (PAT) mechanism controls cacheability based on virtual addresses. PAT
extends the capabilities provided by the PCD and PWT page-level cache controls. See “Page-
Attribute Table Mechanism” on page 227 for more information on the use of the PAT mechanism.
System software can combine the use of both the MTRRs and PAT mechanisms to maximize control 
over memory cacheability.
If the MTRRs are disabled in implementations that support the MTRR mechanism, the default 
memory type is set to uncacheable (UC). Memory accesses are not cached even if the caches are 
enabled by clearing CR0.CD to 0. Cacheable memory types must be established using the MTRRs in 
order for memory accesses to be cached.
Cache Control Precedence.  The cache-control mechanisms are used to define the memory type and 
cacheability of main memory and regions of main memory. Taken together, the most restrictive 
memory type takes precedence in defining the caching policy of memory. The order of precedence is:
1. Uncacheable (UC)
2. Write-combining (WC)
3. Write-protected (WP)
4. Writethrough (WT)
5. Writeback (WB)
For example, assume a large memory region is designated a writethrough type using the MTRRs. 
Individual pages within that region can have caching disabled by setting the appropriate page-table 
PCD bits. However, no pages within that region can have a writeback caching policy, regardless of the 
page-table PWT values.
[AMD Public Use]
