Platform Quality of Service (PQOS) Extension
701
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
flushes the lines using CLFLUSH, WBINVD, or INVD instructions.
Note: L3 cache occupancy as reported by the monitoring hardware is an approximation. Software
must not assume that an L3 occupancy measurement of zero is an indication that no lines
remain in the cache which were installed by processors running for a given RMID. The L3
cache occupancy monitor should never be used to determine whether cache flushing may be
skipped in situations which would ordinarily require cache flushing for functional
correctness.
After writing the corresponding EvtID and RMID into the QM_EVTSEL register, L3 occupancy data 
is reported via the QM_CTR register. The QM_CTR E bit will be set if system software has specified 
an illegal RMID or an undefined or unsupported EvtID in QM_EVTSEL. If the E bit is set, the rest of 
the QM_CTR value should be ignored.
The U bit may be set on any QM_CTR read. Subsequent reads issued to the same RMID and EvtID 
may have the U bit cleared. The U bit is set when the monitoring hardware does not have an accurate 
count for the selected event.
19.3.3  Monitoring L3 Memory Bandwidth (MBM)
The L3 MB mechanism counts requests made by the L3 cache to the lower-level caches and memory 
(not including I/O). Processors supporting L3 memory bandwidth monitoring are identified by 
Fn0000_000F_EDX_x1 bit 1 [L3BWMonEvt0] and bit 2 [L3BWMonEvt1] being set. The 
corresponding Event IDs are EvtID=2 and EvtID=3 respectively.
By default, L3BWMonEvt0 (EvtID 2) tracks total L3 memory bandwidth and L3BWMonEvt1 (EvtId 
3) tracks local L3 memory bandwidth.  If Bandwidth Monitoring Event Configuration (BMEC) is not 
implemented, the types of L3 transactions counted for EvtID2 and EvtID3 are fixed. See 
Section 19.3.3.1. However, if BMEC is supported, the type of bandwidth transactions tracked by 
these events is configurable. See Section 19.3.3.2.
If Assignable Bandwidth Monitoring Counters (ABMC) are implemented, software can specify 
which RMIDs are tracked by the implemented MBM hardware counters. See Section 19.3.3.3.
System software reads MBM bandwidth counters using the QM_EVTSEL and QM_CTR registers as 
described in the following sections.
For all bandwidth monitoring modes, the value returned in QM_CTR must be multiplied by the 
scaling factor, CPUID Fn0000_000F_EBX_x1[ScalingFactor](bits 31:0), to obtain the number of 
bytes used by the selected bandwidth source. 
To obtain a bandwidth, software should read the Time Stamp Counter (TSC) and the L3 Cache 
Bandwidth count, wait some period of time, and then read the TSC and the L3 Cache Bandwidth 
count again. To obtain the rate, software should then divide the difference between the count values 
by the sampling period.
In PQOS Version 2.0 or higher, the MBM hardware will set the U bit on the first QM_CTR read 
when it begins tracking an RMID that it was not previously tracking. The U bit will be zero for all 
subsequent reads from that RMID while it is still tracked by the hardware. Therefore, a QM_CTR 
[AMD Public Use]
