80
Segmented Virtual Memory
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Data-Segment Registers.  The DS register contains the segment selector referencing the default 
data-segment descriptor entry. The SS register contains the stack-segment selector. The ES, FS, and 
GS registers are optionally loaded with segment selectors referencing other data segments. Data 
accesses default to referencing the DS descriptor except in the following two cases:
•
The ES descriptor is referenced for string-instruction destinations.
•
The SS descriptor is referenced for stack operations.
4.5.3  Segment Registers in 64-Bit Mode
CS Register in 64-Bit Mode.  In 64-bit mode, most of the hidden portion of the CS register is 
ignored. Only the L (long), D (default operation size), and DPL (descriptor privilege-level) attributes 
are recognized by 64-bit mode. Address calculations assume a CS.base value of 0. CS references do 
not check the CS.limit value, but instead check that the effective address is in canonical form.
DS, ES, and SS Registers in 64-Bit Mode.  In 64-bit mode, the contents of the ES, DS, and SS 
segment registers are ignored. All fields (base, limit, and attribute) in the hidden portion of the 
segment registers are ignored. 
Address calculations in 64-bit mode that reference the ES, DS, or SS segments are treated as if the 
segment base is 0. Instead of performing limit checks, the processor checks that all virtual-address 
references are in canonical form.
Neither enabling and activating long mode nor switching between 64-bit and compatibility modes 
changes the contents of the visible or hidden portions of the segment registers. These registers remain 
unchanged during 64-bit mode execution unless explicit segment loads are performed.
FS and GS Registers in 64-Bit Mode.  Unlike the CS, DS, ES, and SS segments, the FS and GS 
segment overrides can be used in 64-bit mode. When FS and GS segment overrides are used in 64-bit 
mode, their respective base addresses are used in the effective-address (EA) calculation. The complete 
EA calculation then becomes (FS or GS).base  base  (scale  index)  displacement. The FS.base 
and GS.base values are also expanded to the full 64-bit virtual-address size, as shown in Figure 4-5. 
Any overflow in the 64-bit linear address calculation is ignored and the resulting address instead wraps 
around to the other end of the address space.
[AMD Public Use]
