System Instructions
181
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
6.4.4  Adjusting Access Rights
ARPL Instruction.  The adjust RPL-field (ARPL) instruction can be used by system software to 
prevent access into privileged-data segments by lower-privileged software. This can happen if an 
application passes a selector to system software and the selector RPL is less than (has greater privilege 
than) the calling-application CPL. To prevent this surrogate access, system software executes ARPL 
with the following operands:
•
The destination operand is the data-segment selector passed to system software by the application.
•
The source operand is the application code-segment selector (available on the system-software
stack as a result of the CALL into system software by the application).
ARPL is not supported in 64-bit mode. 
6.5
Processor Halt
The processor halt instruction (HLT) halts instruction execution, leaving the processor in the halt state. 
No registers or machine state are modified as a result of executing the HLT instruction. The processor 
remains in the halt state until one of the following occurs:
•
A non-maskable interrupt (NMI).
•
An enabled, maskable interrupt (INTR).
•
Processor reset (RESET).
•
Processor initialization (INIT).
•
System-management interrupt (SMI).
6.6
Cache and TLB Management
Cache-management instructions are used by system software to maintain coherency within the 
memory hierarchy. Memory coherency and caches are discussed in Chapter 7, “Memory System.” 
Similarly, TLB-management instructions are used to maintain coherency between page translations 
cached in the TLB and the translation tables maintained by system software in memory. See 
“Translation-Lookaside Buffer (TLB)” on page 157 for more information.
6.6.1  Cache Management
WBINVD and WBNOINVD Instructions.  The writeback and invalidate (WBINVD) and writeback 
no invalidate (WBNOINVD) instructions are used to write all modified cache lines to memory so that 
memory contains the most recent copy of data. After the writes are complete, the WBINVD instruction 
invalidates all cache lines, whereas the WBNOINVD instruction may leave the lines in the cache 
hierarchy in a non-modified state. These instructions operate on all caches in the memory hierarchy, 
including caches that are external to the processor. See the instructions' description in Volume 3 for 
further operational details.
[AMD Public Use]
