Machine Check Architecture
299
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Specific details on hardware error detection, logging, and reporting are implementation-dependent and 
are described in the BIOS and Kernel Developer’s Guide (BKDG) or Processor Programming 
Reference Manual (PPR)   applicable to your product.
9.1.3  Error Recovery
When errors cannot be corrected by hardware, error recovery comes into play. Error recovery, as 
defined by MCA, always involves software intervention. Logged information about the uncorrected 
error condition that caused the exception allows system software to take actions to either correct the 
error and resume the interrupted execution stream or terminate software processes (or higher-level 
software constructs) that are known to be affected by the uncorrected error.
From a system perspective, all errors are either recoverable or unrecoverable. The following outlines 
the characteristics of each:
•
Recoverable—Hardware has determined that the architectural state of the processor experiencing 
the uncorrected error has not been compromised. Software execution can continue if system 
software can determine the extent of the error and take actions to either:
-
correct the error and resume the interrupted stream of execution or, 
-
if this is not possible, terminate software processes that have incurred a loss of architectural 
state and continue other software processes that are unaffected by the error.
•
Unrecoverable—Hardware has determined that the architectural state of the processor 
experiencing the uncorrected error has been corrupted. Software execution cannot reliably 
continue. 
Software saves any diagnostic information that it may be able to gather and halts.
The fact that an error is recoverable does not mean that recovery software will be able to resume 
program execution. If it is unable to determine the extent of the corruption or if it determines that 
essential state information has been lost, it may only be able to save information about the error and 
halt processing.
System software has many options to recover from an uncorrected error. The following is a partial list 
of possible actions that system software might take:
•
If it can be determined that the corruption caused by the uncorrected error is contained within a 
software process, software can kill the process.
•
If the uncorrected error has corrupted the architectural state of a virtual machine, the VMM can 
rebuild the container (using only hardware resources that are known to be good) and reboot the 
guest operating system.
•
If the uncorrected error is a part of a block of data being transferred to or from an I/O device, the 
data transfer can be flushed and retried or terminated with an error.
•
If the uncorrected error is due to a hard link failure, software can reconfigure the network to route 
information around the failed link.
[AMD Public Use]
