Software Debug and Performance Resources
441
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
An application should periodically remove event records from the ring buffer and advance the tail 
pointer. (If the application does not process the event records quickly enough or often enough, the 
LWP hardware will detect that the ring buffer is full and will miss events.) There are two ways to 
process the gathered events: interrupts or polling.
The application can wait until a threshold interrupt occurs to process the event records in the ring 
buffer. This requires OS or driver support. (As a consequence, interrupts can only be enabled if a 
kernel mode routine allows it; see “LWP_CFG—LWP Configuration MSR” on page 455) One usage 
model is to associate the LWP interrupt with a semaphore or mutex. When the interrupt occurs, the OS 
or driver signals the associated object. A thread waiting on the object wakes up and empties the ring 
buffer. Other models are possible, of course.
Alternatively, the application can have a thread that periodically polls the ring buffer. The polling 
thread need not be part of the process that is using LWP. It can be in a separate process that shares the 
memory containing the LWP control block and ring buffer.
Access to the ring buffer uses a lockless protocol between the LWP hardware and the application. The 
hardware owns the head pointer and the area in the ring buffer from the head pointer up to (but not 
including) the tail pointer. The application must not modify the head pointer nor rely on any data in the 
area of the ring buffer owned by the hardware. If the application has a stale value for the head pointer, 
it may miss an existing event record but it will never read invalid data. When the application is done 
emptying the ring buffer, it should refresh its copy of the head pointer to see if the LWP hardware has 
added any new event records.
Similarly, the application owns the tail pointer and the area in the ring buffer from the tail pointer up to 
(but not including) the head pointer. The hardware will never modify the tail pointer or overwrite the 
data in that region of the ring buffer. If the hardware has a stale value for the tail pointer, it may 
consider that the ring buffer is full or at its threshold, but it will never overwrite valid data. Instead, it 
refreshes its copy of the tail pointer and rechecks to see if the full or threshold condition still applies.
When LWP is in continuous mode, this lockless protocol does not work, since the LWP hardware may 
overwrite the event records in the ring buffer when it advances the head pointer past the tail pointer. 
Because of this, the application must stop LWP before removing event records from the ring buffer. 
This prevents the hardware from wrapping through the ring buffer asynchronously from the 
application’s attempt to remove data from it. 
To use continuous mode properly, the application should set LWPCB.MissedEvents to 0 and set the 
head and tail pointers to the start of the ring buffer before starting LWP. To empty the ring buffer, the 
application should stop LWP. If LWPCB.MissedEvents is 0, the buffer did not wrap and there are event 
records starting at the tail pointer and continuing up to (but not including) the head pointer. If 
MissedEvents is not 0, the buffer wrapped and there are event records starting with the oldest one 
pointed to by the head pointer and continuing (possibly wrapping) all the way around to the newest one 
just before the head pointer.
[AMD Public Use]
