262
Exceptions and Interrupts
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
8.3
Exceptions During a Task Switch
An exception can occur during a task switch while loading a segment selector. Page faults can also 
occur when accessing a TSS. In these cases, the hardware task-switch mechanism completes loading 
the new task state from the TSS, and then triggers the appropriate exception mechanism. No other 
checks are performed. When this happens, the saved instruction pointer points to the first instruction in 
the new task.
In long mode, an exception cannot occur during a task switch, because the hardware task-switch 
mechanism is disabled.
8.4
Error Codes
The processor exception-handling mechanism reports error and status information for some 
exceptions using an error code. The error code is pushed onto the stack by the exception mechanism 
during the control transfer into the exception handler. The error code formats are described in the 
following sections.
8.4.1  Selector-Error Code
Figure 8-2 shows the format of the selector-error code. 
Figure 8-2.
Selector Error Code
The information reported by the selector-error code includes:
•
EXT—Bit 0. If this bit is set to 1, the exception source is external to the processor. If cleared to 0,
the exception source is internal to the processor.
•
IDT—Bit 1. If this bit is set to 1, the error-code selector-index field references a gate descriptor
located in the interrupt-descriptor table (IDT). If cleared to 0, the selector-index field references a
descriptor in either the global-descriptor table (GDT) or local-descriptor table (LDT), as indicated
by the TI bit.
•
TI—Bit 2. If this bit is set to 1, the error-code selector-index field references a descriptor in the
LDT. If cleared to 0, the selector-index field references a descriptor in the GDT. The TI bit is
relevant only when the IDT bit is cleared to 0.
•
Selector Index—Bits 15:3. The selector-index field specifies the index into either the GDT, LDT,
or IDT, as specified by the IDT and TI bits.
Some exceptions return a zero in the selector-error code.
31
16 15
3
2
1
0
Reserved
Selector Index
TI
IDT
EXT
[AMD Public Use]
