480
Processor Initialization and Long Mode Activation
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
14
Processor Initialization and Long Mode 
Activation
This chapter describes the hardware actions taken following a processor reset and the steps that must 
be taken to initialize processor resources and activate long mode. In some cases the actions required 
are implementation-specific with references made to the appropriate implementation-specific 
documentation.
14.1
Processor Initialization
System logic can initialize the processor in either of two ways. One method, called RESET, is usually 
initiated by the assertion of an external signal (typically designated RESET#). The other method, 
called INIT, is typically initiated by another processor by means of an INIT interprocessor interrupt 
(IPI). See “Interprocessor Interrupts (IPI)” on page 641 for more information.
Both initialization techniques place the processor in real mode and initialize processor resources to a 
known, consistent state from which software can begin execution. The processor begins execution 
when the RESET# pin is deasserted or the INIT state is exited.
The RESET method places the processor in a known state and prepares it to begin execution in real 
mode. The INIT method is similar except it does not modify the state of certain registers. See Section 
14.1.3 on page 481 for a comparison of these initialization methods.
System logic ensures that the processor transitions through the RESET state whenever power is 
reapplied after a planned or unplanned interruption. A RESET can also be performed when power is 
stable. An INIT can be performed at any time after the processor is powered up.
14.1.1  Built-In Self Test (BIST)
An optional built-in self-test can be performed after the processor is reset. The mechanism for 
triggering the BIST is implementation-specific, and can be found in the hardware documentation for 
the implementation. The number of processor cycles BIST can consume before completing is also 
implementation-specific but typically consumes several million cycles.
BIST can be used by system implementations to assist in verifying system integrity, thereby improving 
system reliability, availability, and serviceability. The internal BIST hardware generally tests all 
internal array structures for errors. These structures can include (but are not limited to):
•
All internal caches, including the tag arrays as well as the data arrays.
•
All TLBs.
•
Internal ROMs, such as the microcode ROM and floating-point constant ROM.
•
Branch-prediction structures.
[AMD Public Use]
