Exceptions and Interrupts
287
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Interrupt Shadow Stack Table. When the shadow stack feature is enabled in long mode 
(EFER.LMA=1), a mechanism similar to the IST is provided to switch shadow stacks. This 
mechanism, the Interrupt Shadow Stack Table (ISST) is described in Section “Shadow Stacks” on 
page 678. 
8.9.5  Returning From Interrupt Procedures
As with legacy mode, a return to an interrupted program in long mode should be performed using the 
IRET instruction. However, in long mode, the IRET semantics are different from legacy mode:
•
In 64-bit mode, IRET pops the return-stack pointer unconditionally off the interrupt-stack frame
and into the SS:RSP registers. This reverses the action of the long-mode interrupt mechanism,
which saves the stack pointer whether or not a privilege change occurs. IRET also allows a null
selector to be popped off the stack and into the SS register. See Section “Nested IRETs to 64-Bit
Mode Procedures” on page 287 for additional information.
•
In compatibility mode, IRET behaves as it does in legacy mode. The SS:ESP is popped off the
stack only if a control transfer to less privilege (numerically greater CPL) is performed. Otherwise,
it is assumed that a stack pointer is not present on the interrupt-handler stack.
The long-mode interrupt mechanism always uses a 64-bit stack when saving values for the interrupt 
handler, and the interrupt handler is always entered in 64-bit mode. To work properly, an IRET used to 
exit the 64-bit mode interrupt-handler requires a series of eight-byte pops off the stack. This is 
accomplished by using a 64-bit operand-size prefix with the IRET instruction. The default stack size 
assumed by an IRET in 64-bit mode is 32 bits, so a 64-bit REX prefix is needed by 64-bit mode 
interrupt handlers.
Nested IRETs to 64-Bit Mode Procedures.  In long mode, an interrupt causes a null selector to be 
loaded into the SS register if the CPL changes (this is the same action taken by a far CALL in long 
mode). If the interrupt handler performs a far call, or is itself interrupted, the null SS selector is pushed 
onto the stack frame, and another null selector is loaded into the SS register. Using a null selector in 
this way allows the processor to properly handle returns nested within 64-bit-mode procedures and 
interrupt handlers. 
The null selector enables the processor to properly handle nested returns to 64-bit mode (which do not 
use the SS register), and returns to compatibility mode (which do use the SS register). Normally, an 
IRET that pops a null selector into the SS register causes a general-protection exception (#GP) to 
occur. However, in long mode, the null selector indicates the existence of nested interrupt handlers 
and/or privileged software in 64-bit mode. Long mode allows an IRET to pop a null selector into SS 
from the stack under the following conditions: 
•
The target mode is 64-bit mode.
•
The target CPL3.
In this case, the processor does not load an SS descriptor, and the null selector is loaded into SS 
without causing a #GP exception.
[AMD Public Use]
