498
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
15
Secure Virtual Machine
The AMD VirtualizationTM (AMD-VTM) architecture is designed to support enterprise-class server 
virtualization software technology and facilitate virtualization development and deployment on any 
type of system, through the Secure Virtual Machine (SVM) extension. An SVM-enabled virtual 
machine architecture provides hardware resources that allow a single physical machine to run multiple 
operating systems efficiently, while maintaining secure, hardware-enforced isolation.
15.1
The Virtual Machine Monitor
A virtual machine monitor (VMM), also known as a hypervisor, consists of software that controls the 
execution of multiple guest operating systems on a single physical machine. The VMM provides each 
guest the appearance of full control over a complete computer system (memory, CPU, and all 
peripheral devices). The use of the term host refers to the execution context of the VMM. World switch 
refers to the operation of switching between the host and guest. A guest may have one or more virtual 
CPUs (vCPUs) managed by the guest OS, just as on a non-virtualized system, and a VMM may run 
any mix of vCPUs from the same or different guests on different logical processors simultaneously 
with no hardware-imposed constraints.
Fundamentally, VMMs work by intercepting and emulating in a safe manner sensitive operations in 
the guest (such as changing the page tables, which could give a guest access to memory it is not 
allowed to access, or accessing peripheral devices that are shared among multiple guests). The AMD 
SVM architecture provides hardware assists to improve performance and facilitate implementation of 
virtualization.
15.2
SVM Hardware Overview
SVM processor support provides a set of hardware extensions designed to enable economical and 
efficient implementation of virtual machine systems. Generally speaking, hardware support falls into 
two complementary categories: virtualization support and security support.
15.2.1  Virtualization Support
The AMD virtual machine architecture is designed to provide:
•
A guest/host tagged TLB to reduce virtualization overhead
•
External (DMA) access protection for memory
•
Assists for interrupt handling, virtual interrupt support, and enhanced pause filter
•
The ability to intercept selected instructions or events in the guest
•
Mechanisms for fast world switch between VMM and guest
[AMD Public Use]
