478
Software Debug and Performance Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
moment in the future if LWP context is saved and restored due to context switching. Software must 
stop and restart LWP to ensure that any changes reliably take effect.
13.4.8.4  Security
The operating system must ensure that information does not leak from one process to another or from 
the kernel to a user process. Hence, if it supports LWP at all, the operating system must ensure that the 
state of the LWP hardware is set appropriately when a context switch occurs and when a new process 
or thread is created. LWP state for a new thread can be initialized by executing XRSTOR with bit 62 of 
XSAVE.HEADER.XSTATE_BV set to 0 and the corresponding bit in EDX:EAX set to 1.
13.4.8.5  Interrupts
The LWP threshold interrupt vector number is specified in the LWP_CFG MSR. The operating system 
must assign a vector for LWP threshold interrupts and fill in the corresponding entry in the interrupt-
descriptor table. Note that the LWP interrupt is not shared with the performance counter interrupt, 
since the system allows concurrent and independent use of those two mechanisms.
13.4.8.6  Memory Access During LWP Operation
When LWP needs to save an event record in the event ring buffer, it accesses the user memory 
containing the ring buffer and sometimes the memory containing the LWPCB. This causes a Page 
Fault (#PF) exception if those pages are not in memory.
A particular implementation of LWP has several ways to deal with page faults when storing an event 
record. These may include saving the event record in the XSAVE area and retrying the store later, re-
executing the instruction, or discarding the event and reporting the next event of the appropriate type.
Note that this reinforces the notion that LWP is a sampling mechanism. Programs cannot rely on it to 
precisely capture every nth instance of an event. It captures approximately every nth instance.
13.4.8.7  Guidelines for Operating Systems
To support LWP, an operating system should follow the following guidelines. Most of these operations 
should be done on each core of a multi-core system.
System initialization
1. Use CPUID Fn0000_0000 to ensure that the system is running on an “Authentic AMD” 
processor, and then check CPUID Fn8000_0001_ECX[LWP] to ensure that the processor 
supports LWP.
Alternatively, check CPUID Fn0000_000D_EDX_x0[30] to ensure that the system supports the 
LWP XSAVE area, indicating that the processor supports LWP.
2. Enable XSAVE operations by setting CR4[OSXSAVE].
3. Enable LWP by executing XSETBV to set bit 62 of XCR0.
[AMD Public Use]
