OS-Visible Workarounds
765
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Appendix E OS-Visible Workarounds
Operating system software may provide a workaround for a hardware erratum. These operating 
system-visible workarounds are provisional and should be removed or disabled when the erratum is 
corrected in a subsequent hardware release.
The OS-Visible Workaround (OSVW) architecture provides a means by which operating system 
software may determining the status of a known erratum for the hardware on which the software is 
running. Support for the OSVW mechanism is indicated by CPUID Fn8000_0001_ECX[OSVW] = 1.
See Section 3.3, "Processor Feature Identification," on page 71 for information on using the CPUID 
instruction.
Each hardware erratum is assigned a unique OSVW ID number. OSVW ID numbers start at 0 and are 
assigned sequentially up to the most recently identified erratum which is assigned the number m−1. 
The OSVW mechanism encodes the status of each erratum for a given hardware system in a bit vector 
of length m accessed through OSVM MSRs 1–N. The state of bit n of the vector indicates the status of 
the erratum with the OSVW ID number n. The OSVW ID number for the erratum and the bit position 
within the erratum status bit vector, once assigned, are global across all AMD processors; the OSVW 
ID and bit position will not be re-used. 
The OSVW MSRs are defined as follows: 
•
OSVW MSR0 contains the OSVW_ID_Length field, used to indicate the total number of valid 
OSVW ID bits (m). The format of this MSR is shown in Figure E-1 below.
•
OSVW MSR 1 and following contain the erratum status bit vector of length m. Each bit n of this 
vector encodes the status of erratum n (OSVW ID = n). The format of these MSRs is shown in 
Figure E-2 on page 766.
The bank of OSVW MSRs is located at address C001_0140h, starting with OSVW MSR0.
The OSVW MSRs should be treated as read-only registers for the OS. The OS should never write into 
these registers. Hardware allows platform firmware writes to these registers.
Figure E-1.
OSVW MSR0: OSVW_ID_Length
63
16
15
0
Reserved
OSVW_ID_Length
Bits
Mnemonic
Description
Access type1
63:16
Reserved
15:0
OSVW_ID_Length
Total length of the status vector OSVW_E in bits.
R/W
Note 1: MSR should be treated as read-only by operating system software.
[AMD Public Use]
