Secure Virtual Machine
569
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
class value is not stored. Writes to the memory-mapped TPR register update bits 3:0 of CR8 and 
V_TPR and writes to CR8 update the TPR backing page value bits 7:4 while bits 3:0 are set to zero.
Figure 15-16.
Virtual APIC Task Priority Register Synchronization
The synchronization between the Task Priority field of the TPR and the Task Priority field of CR8 is 
normal local APIC behavior which is emulated by AVIC. For more information on the APIC, see 
Chapter 16, “Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC),” on page 627.
Processor Priority Register (PPR).  Writes to the processor priority register by the guest cause a 
#VMEXIT without updating the value in the backing page. AVIC hardware maintains the PPR value in 
the backing page. AVIC hardware updates the PPR value in the backing page when either the TPR 
value or the highest in-service interrupt changes. This value is used to control the delivery of virtual 
interrupts to the guest. PPR reads by the guest are allowed.
End of Interrupt (EOI) Register.  When the guest writes to the EOI register address, AVIC 
hardware clears the highest priority in-service interrupt (ISR) bit in the backing page and re-evaluates 
the interrupt state to determine if another pending interrupt should be delivered. If the highest priority 
in-service interrupt is set to level mode (in the corresponding TMR bit), the EOI write causes a 
#VMEXIT to allow the VMM to emulate the level-triggered behavior.
Interrupt Command Register Low (ICRL).  Writes to the ICRL register have the side-effect of 
initiating the generation of an interprocessor interrupt (IPI) based on the values written to the fields in 
both the ICRL and ICRH registers. AVIC hardware handles the generation of IPIs when the specified 
Message Type is Fixed (also known as fixed delivery mode) and the Trigger Mode is edge-triggered. 
The hardware also supports self and broadcast delivery modes specified via the Destination Shorthand 
(DSH) field of the ICRL. Logical and physical APIC ID formats are supported. All other IPI types 
cause a #VMEXIT. For more information on AVIC’s handling of IPI commands, see “Inter-processor 
Interrupts” on page 564.
15.29.4  VMCB Changes for AVIC
The following paragraphs provide an overview of new VMCB fields defined as part of the AVIC 
architecture.
Task Priority
Task Priority 
Subclass
Reserved
Task Priority
TPR
CR8 / V_TPR
7
4
0
3
7
4
0
3
[AMD Public Use]
