Task Management
375
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
-
Whether the port can be accessed at any privilege level.
-
Whether the port can be accessed outside the privilege level established by EFLAGS.IOPL.
-
Whether the port can be accessed when the processor is running in virtual-8086 mode. 
Because one bit is used per 8-byte I/O-port, this bitmap can take up to 8 Kbytes of TSS space. The
bitmap can be located anywhere within the first 64 Kbytes of the TSS, as long as it is above byte
103. The last byte of the bitmap must contain all ones (0FFh). See “I/O-Permission Bitmap” on
page 375 for more information.
•
Interrupt-Redirection Bitmap—Static field. This field defines how each of the 256-possible
software interrupts is directed in a virtual-8086 environment. One bit is used for each interrupt, for
a total bitmap size of 32 bytes. The bitmap can be located anywhere above byte 103 within the first
64 Kbytes of the TSS. See “Interrupt Redirection of Software Interrupts” on page 290 for
information on using this field.
The TSS can be paged by system software. System software that uses the hardware task-switch 
mechanism must guarantee that a page fault does not occur during a task switch. Because the processor 
only reads and writes the first 104 TSS bytes during a task switch, this restriction only applies to those 
bytes. The simplest approach is to align the TSS on a page boundary so that all critical bytes are either 
present or not present. Then, if a page fault occurs when the TSS is accessed, it occurs before the first 
byte is read. If the page fault occurs after a portion of the TSS is read, the fault is unrecoverable.
I/O-Permission Bitmap.  The I/O-permission bitmap (IOPB) allows system software to grant less-
privileged programs access to individual I/O ports, overriding the effect of RFLAGS.IOPL for those 
devices. When an I/O instruction is executed, the processor checks the IOPB only if the processor is in 
virtual x86 mode or the CPL is greater than the RFLAGS.IOPL field. Each bit in the IOPB 
corresponds to a byte I/O port. A word I/O port corresponds to two consecutive IOPB bits, and a 
doubleword I/O port corresponds to four consecutive IOPB bits. Access is granted to an I/O port of a 
given size when all IOPB bits corresponding to that port are clear. If any bits are set, a #GP occurs. 
The IOPB is located in the TSS, as shown by the example in Figure 12-7 on page 376. Each TSS can 
have a different copy of the IOPB, so access to individual I/O devices can be granted on a task-by-task 
basis. The I/O-permission bitmap base-address field located at byte 66h in the TSS is an offset into the 
TSS locating the start of the IOPB. If all 64K I/O ports are supported, the IOPB base address must not 
be greater than 0DFFFh, otherwise accesses to the bitmap cause a #GP to occur. An extra byte must be 
present after the last IOPB byte. This byte must have all bits set to 1 (0FFh). This allows the processor 
to read two IOPB bytes each time an I/O port is accessed. By reading two IOPB bytes, the processor 
can check all bits when unaligned, multi-byte I/O ports are accessed. 
[AMD Public Use]
