562
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
INIT IPI to all APs and wait for its local APIC busy indication to clear. This places the APs into a 
halted state which is responsive only to a subsequent Startup IPI. APs will still respond to snoops for 
cache coherency. The driver may execute SKINIT at any time after this point. Depending on processor 
implementation, a fixed delay of no more than 1000 processor cycles may be necessary before 
executing SKINIT to ensure reliable sensing of APIC INIT state by the SKINIT.
AP Startup Sequence.  While the SL starts executing on the BSP, the APs remain halted in APIC 
INIT state. Either the SL or the SK may issue the Startup IPI for the APs at whatever point is deemed 
appropriate. The Startup IPI conveys an 8-bit vector specified by the software that issues the IPI to the 
APs. This vector provides the upper 8 bits of a 20-bit physical address. Therefore, the AP startup code 
must reside in the lower 1 Mbyte of physical memory—with the entry point at offset 0 on that 
particular page. 
In response to the Startup IPI, the APs start executing at the specified location in 16-bit real mode. This 
AP startup code must set up protections on each processor as determined by the SL or SK. It must also 
set GIF to re-enable interrupts, and restore the pre-SKINIT system context (as directed by the SL or 
SK executing on the BSP), before resuming normal system operation.
The SL must ensure the integrity of the AP startup sequence, for example by including the startup code 
in the hashed SL image and setting up DEV protection for it before copying it to the desired area. The 
AP startup code does not need to (and should not) execute SKINIT. Care must also be taken to avoid 
issuing another INIT IPI from any processor after the BSP executes SKINIT and before all APs have 
received a Startup IPI, as this could compromise the integrity of AP initialization. 
Pending interrupts.  Device interrupts that may be pending on an AP prior to the APIC INIT IPI due 
to EFLAGS.IF being clear, or that assert any time after the processor has accepted the INIT IPI, will be 
held pending through the subsequent Startup IPI, and remain pending until software sets GIF to 1 on 
that AP. Similarly, SMI, INIT, and NMI interrupts that assert after the processor has accepted the INIT 
IPI will also be held pending until GIF is set to 1.
Aborting MP initialization.  In the event that the SL or SK on the BSP decides to abort SVM system 
initialization for any reason, the following clean-up actions must be performed by SL code executing 
on each processor before returning control to the original operating environment:
•
The BSP and all APs that responded to the Startup IPI must restore GIF and clear VM_CR on each
processor for normal operation. 
•
For each processor that has a distinct memory controller associated with it, the SL_DEV_EN flag
in the DEV control register must be cleared in order to restore normal device accessibility to the
64KB SL memory range.
Any secure context created by the SL that should not be exposed to untrusted code should be cleaned 
up as appropriate before these steps are taken.
[AMD Public Use]
