System-Programming Overview
1
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
1
System-Programming Overview
This entire volume is intended for system-software developers—programmers writing operating 
systems, loaders, linkers, device drivers, or utilities that require access to system resources. These 
system resources are generally available only to software running at the highest-privilege level 
(CPL=0), also referred to as privileged software. Privilege levels and their interactions are fully 
described in “Segment-Protection Overview” on page 104.
This chapter introduces the basic features and capabilities of the AMD64 architecture that are 
available to system-software developers. The concepts include:
•
The supported address forms and how memory is organized. 
•
How memory-management hardware makes use of the various address forms to access memory. 
•
The processor operating modes, and how the memory-management hardware supports each of 
those modes.
•
The system-control registers used to manage system resources.
•
The interrupt and exception mechanism, and how it is used to interrupt program execution and to 
report errors.
•
Additional, miscellaneous features available to system software, including support for hardware 
multitasking, reporting machine-check exceptions, debugging software problems, and optimizing 
software performance.
Many of the legacy features and capabilities are enhanced by the AMD64 architecture to support 64-
bit operating systems and applications, while providing backward-compatibility with existing 
software.
1.1
Memory Model
The AMD64 architecture memory model is designed to allow system software to manage application 
software and associated data in a secure fashion. The memory model is backward-compatible with the 
legacy memory model. Hardware-translation mechanisms are provided to map addresses between 
virtual-memory space and physical-memory space. The translation mechanisms allow system 
software to relocate applications and data transparently, either anywhere in physical-memory space, or 
in areas on the system hard drive managed by the operating system. 
In long mode, the AMD64 architecture implements a flat-memory model. In legacy mode, the 
architecture implements all legacy memory models.
[AMD Public Use]
