Software Debug and Performance Resources
423
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
13.2.4  Time-Stamp Counter
The time-stamp counter (TSC) is used to count processor-clock cycles. The TSC is cleared to 0 after a 
processor reset. After a reset, the TSC is incremented at a rate corresponding to the baseline frequency 
of the processor (which may differ from actual processor frequency in low power modes of operation). 
Each time the TSC is read, it returns a monotonically-larger value than the previous value read from 
the TSC. When the TSC contains all ones, it wraps to zero. The TSC in a 1-GHz processor counts for 
almost 600 years before it wraps. Figure 13-18 shows the format of the 64-bit time-stamp counter 
(TSC). 
Figure 13-18.
Time-Stamp Counter (TSC)
The TSC is a model-specific register that can also be read using one of the special read time-stamp 
counter instructions, RDTSC (Read Time-Stamp Counter) or RDTSCP (Read Time-Stamp Counter 
and Processor ID). The RDTSC and RDTSCP instructions load the contents of the TSC into the EDX 
register and the EAX register. The high 32 bits are loaded into EDX, and the low 32 bits are loaded into 
EAX. The RDTSC and RDTSCP instructions can be executed at any privilege level and from any 
processor mode. However, system software can disable the RDTSC or RDTSCP instructions for 
programs that run at CPL > 0 by setting CR4[TSD] (the time-stamp disable bit) to 1. When 
CR4[TSD] = 1 and CPL > 0, attempts to execute RDSTC or RDSTCP result in a general-protection 
exception (#GP).
The TSC register can be read and written using the RDMSR and WRMSR instructions, respectively. 
The programmer should use the CPUID instruction to determine whether these features are supported. 
If EDX bit 4 (as returned by CPUID function 1) is set, then the processor supports TSC, the RDTSC 
instruction and CR4[TSD]. If EDX bit 27 returned by CPUID function 8000_0001h is set, then the 
processor supports the RDTSCP instruction.
The TSC register can be used by performance-analysis applications, along with the performance-
monitoring registers, to help determine the relative frequency of an event or its duration. Software can 
also use the TSC to time software routines to help identify candidates for optimization. In general, the 
TSC should not be used to take very short time measurements, because the resulting measurement is 
not guaranteed to be identical each time it is made. The RDTSC instruction (unlike the RDTSCP 
instruction) is not serializing, and can be executed out-of-order with respect to other instructions 
around it. Even when bound by serializing instructions, the system environment at the time the 
instruction is executed can cause additional cycles to be counted before the TSC value is loaded into 
EDX:EAX.
When using the TSC to measure elapsed time, programmers must be aware that for some 
implementations, the rate at which the TSC is incremented varies based on the processor power 
management state (Pstate). For other implementations, the TSC increment rate is fixed and is not 
63
0
TSC
[AMD Public Use]
