Memory System
189
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
7.1.3  Read/Write Barriers
When the order of memory accesses must be strictly enforced, software can use read/write barrier 
instructions to force reads and writes to proceed in program order. Read/write barrier instructions force 
all prior reads or writes to complete before subsequent reads or writes are executed. The LFENCE, 
SFENCE, and MFENCE instructions are provided as dedicated read, write, and read/write barrier 
instructions (respectively). Serializing instructions, I/O instructions, and locked instructions 
(including the implicitly locked XCHG instruction) can also be used as read/write barriers. Barrier 
instructions are useful for controlling ordering between differing memory types as well as within one 
memory type; see Section 7.3.1, “Special Coherency Considerations,” on page 194 for details.
Table 7-2 on page 198 summarizes the memory-access ordering possible for each memory type 
supported by the AMD64 architecture.
7.2
Multiprocessor Memory Access Ordering
The term memory ordering refers to the sequence in which memory accesses are performed by the 
memory system, as observed by all processors or programs.
To improve performance of applications, AMD64 processors can speculatively execute instructions 
out of program order and temporarily hold out-of-order results. However, certain rules are followed 
with regard to normal cacheable accesses on naturally aligned boundaries to WB memory.
In the examples below, all memory values are initialized to zero.
From the point of view of a program, in ascending order of priority:
•
All loads, stores and I/O operations from a single processor appear to occur in program order to the
code running on that processor and all instructions appear to execute in program order.
•
Successive stores from a single processor are committed to system memory and visible to other
processors in program order. A store by a processor cannot be committed to memory before a read
appearing earlier in the program has captured its targeted data from memory. In other words, stores
from a processor cannot be reordered to occur prior to a load preceding it in program order. 
In this context:
-
Loads do not pass previous loads (loads are not reordered). Stores do not pass previous stores 
(stores are not reordered)
Load A cannot read 0 when Load B reads 1. (This rule may be violated in the case of loads as
part of a string operation, in which one iteration of the string reads 0 for Load A while another
iteration reads 1 for Load B.)
-
Stores do not pass loads
Processor 0
Processor 1
Store A  1
Load B 
Store B  1
Load A
[AMD Public Use]
