Software Debug and Performance Resources
459
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Internally, LWP keeps the linear address of the LWPCB and the ring buffer. If the application changes 
the value of DS, LWP will continue to collect samples even if the new DS value would no longer 
allows it to access the LWPCB or the ring buffer. However, a #GP fault will occur if the application 
uses XRSTOR to restore LWP state saved by XSAVE. Programs should avoid using 
XSAVE/XRSTOR on LWP state if DS has changed. This only applies when the CPL ≠0; kernel mode 
operation of XRSTOR is unaffected by changes to DS. See “XSAVE/XRSTOR” on page 471 for 
details.
Operating system and hypervisor code that runs when the CPL ≠3 should use XSAVE and XRSTOR 
to control LWP rather than using LLWPCB (see below). Use WRMSR to write 0 to LWP_CBADDR 
to immediately stop LWP without saving its current state (see “LWP_CBADDR—LWPCB Address 
MSR” on page 456).
It is possible to execute LLWPCB when the CPL ≠3 or when SMM is active, but the system software 
must ensure that the LWPCB and the entire ring buffer are properly mapped into writable memory in 
order to avoid a #PF or #GP fault. Furthermore, if LWP is enabled when a kernel executes LLWPCB, 
both the old and new control blocks and ring buffers must be accessible. Using LLWPCB in these 
situations is not recommended. 
13.4.5.2  SLWPCB—Store LWPCB Address
Flushes LWP state to memory and returns the current effective address of the LWPCB in the specified 
register. 
If LWP is not currently enabled, SLWPCB sets the specified register to zero.
The flush operation stores the internal event counters for active events and the current ring buffer head 
pointer into the LWPCB. If there is an unwritten event record pending, it is written to the event ring 
buffer.
If LWP_CBADDR is not zero, the value returned is an effective address that is calculated by 
subtracting the current DS.Base address from the linear address kept in LWP_CBADDR. Note that if 
DS has changed between the time LLWPCB was executed and the time SLWPCB is executed, this 
might result in an address that is not currently accessible by the application.
SLWPCB generates an invalid opcode exception (#UD) if the machine is not in protected mode or if 
LWP is not available.
It is possible to execute SLWPCB when the CPL ≠ 3 or when SMM is active, but if the LWPCB 
pointer is not zero, the system software must ensure that the LWPCB and the entire ring buffer are 
properly mapped into writable memory in order to avoid a #PF fault. Using SLWPCB in these 
situations is not recommended.
13.4.5.3  LWPVAL—Insert Value Sample in LWP Ring Buffer
Decrements the event counter associated with the Programmed Value Sample event (see “Programmed 
Value Sample” on page 444). If the resulting counter value is negative, inserts an event record into the 
[AMD Public Use]
