Memory System
197
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
writes to UC memory cause the write buffers to be written to memory and be invalidated prior to
the access to UC memory.
The UC memory type is useful for memory-mapped I/O devices where strict ordering of reads and
writes is important. Note that this strong ordering is with respect to UC accesses only; reads to
memory types which support speculative operation may bypass non-conflicting UC accesses.
•
Cache Disable (CD)—The CD memory type is a form of uncacheable memory type that is inferred
when the L1 caches are disabled but not invalidated, or for certain conflicting memory type
assignments from the Page Attribute Table (PAT) and Memory Type Range Register (MTRR)
mechanisms. The former case occurs when caches are disabled by setting CR0.CD to 1 without
invalidating the caches with either the INVD or WBINVD instruction for any reference to a region
designated as cacheable. The latter case occurs when a specific type has been assigned to a virtual
page via PAT, and a conflicting type has been assigned to the mapped physical page via an MTRR
(see “Combined Effect of MTRRs and PAT” on page 230 and “Combining Memory Types,
MTRRs” on page 553 for details).
For the L1 data cache and the L2 cache, reads from, and writes to, CD memory that hit the cache,
or any other caches in the system, cause the cache line(s) to be invalidated before accessing main
memory. If a cache line is in the modified state, the line is written to main memory prior to being
invalidated. The access is allowed to proceed after any invalidations are complete.
For the L1 instruction cache, instruction fetches from CD memory that hit the cache read the
cached instructions rather than access main memory. Instruction fetches that miss the cache access
main memory and do not cause cache-line replacement. Writes to CD memory that hit in the
instruction cache cause the line to be invalidated.
•
Write-Combining (WC)—Reads from, and writes to, WC memory are not cacheable. Reads from
WC memory can be speculative.
Writes to this memory type can be combined internally by the processor and written to memory as
a single write operation to reduce memory accesses. For example, four word writes to consecutive
addresses can be combined by the processor into a single quadword write, resulting in one memory
access instead of four. Reads from this memory can also be combined internally by the processor if
they are to the same cache line. WC reads are not combined across serializing or barrier
instructions.
The WC memory type is useful for graphics-display memory buffers where the order of writes is
not important.
•
Write-Combining Plus (WC+)—WC+ is an uncacheable memory type, and combines writes in
write-combining buffers like WC. Unlike WC (but like the CD memory type), accesses to WC+
memory probe the caches on all processors (including the caches of the processor issuing the
request) to maintain coherency. This ensures that cacheable writes are observed by WC+ accesses.
•
Write-Protect (WP)—Reads from WP memory are cacheable and allocate cache lines on a read
miss. Reads from WP memory can be speculative.
Writes to WP memory that hit in the cache do not update the cache. Instead, all writes update
memory (write to memory), and writes that hit in the cache invalidate the cache line. Write
buffering of WP memory is allowed.
[AMD Public Use]
