Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC)
659
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
MSR addresses in the range 800h through 8FFh that are not listed in Table 16-2 are unimplemented 
and reserved. A #GP(0) exception is generated if a WRMSR or an RDMSR instruction attempts to 
access an unimplemented MSR in the x2APIC address range.
16.11.2  WRMSR / RDMSR serialization for x2APIC Register
The WRMSR instruction is used to write the APIC register set in x2APIC mode. Normally WRMSR is 
a serializing instruction, however when accessing x2APIC registers, the serializing aspect of WRMSR 
is relaxed to allow for more efficient access to those registers. Consequently, a WRMSR write to an 
x2APIC register may complete before older store operations are complete and have become globally 
visible. When strong ordering of an x2APIC write access is required with respect to preceding memory 
operations, software can insert a serializing instruction (such as MFENCE) before the WRMSR 
instruction.
The RDMSR instruction is not a serializing instruction and remains non-serializing when reading 
x2APIC MSRs. However, WRMSR and RDMSR instructions targeting the x2APIC MSRs are always 
executed in program order with respect to each other.
16.11.3  Reserved Bit Checking in x2APIC Mode
When writing x2APIC MSRs, the WRMSR instruction checks for reserved bits. Attempting to write a 
‘1’ to a reserved bit causes a #GP(0) exception. For x2APIC MSRs, WRMSR reserved bit checks are 
summarized as follows:
Legacy APIC registers. Reserved bit checks for existing APIC registers are the same as described for 
each register in non-x2APIC mode. For details, see the APIC register descriptions in sections 16.3 
through section 16.6 above. Except for the Interrupt Command Register, attempting to write a ‘1’ into 
bits 63:32 of the legacy APIC registers causes a #GP(0) exception.
Interrupt Command Register (ICR). See the description of the 64-bit ICR register in section 16.13.
Error Status Register (ESR). A WRMSR of a non-zero value causes a #GP(0) exception.
SELF IPI register. See the description of the 32-bit SELF IPI register in Section 16.15 on page 662.
The RDMSR instruction returns a zero for any reserved bit.
16.12
x2APIC_ID
Unique local APIC IDs are assigned to each logical processor in the system. In x2APIC mode, the 
APIC ID is expanded to 32 bits and is referred to as the ‘x2APIC_ID’. It is assigned by hardware at 
reset time based on the processor topology of the system. The x2APIC_ID is a concatenation of 
several fields such as socket ID, core ID and thread ID.
Because the number of sockets, cores and threads may differ for each SOC, the format of x2APIC ID is 
model-dependent. Some fields may not be present, depending on the processor model and the 
[AMD Public Use]
