System-Management Mode
337
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
10.3.5  Saving Additional Processor State
Several registers are not saved or restored automatically by the SMM mechanism. These are:
•
The 128-bit media instruction registers.
•
The 64-bit media instruction registers.
•
The x87 floating-point registers.
•
The page-fault linear-address register (CR2).
•
The task-priority register (CR8).
•
The debug registers, DR0, DR1, DR2, and DR3.
•
The memory-type range registers (MTRRs).
•
Model-specific registers (MSRs).
These registers are not saved because SMM handlers do not normally use or modify them. If an SMI 
results in a processor reset (due to powering down the processor, for example) or the SMM handler 
modifies the contents of the unsaved registers, the SMM handler should save and restore the original 
contents of those registers. The unsaved registers, along with those stored in the SMRAM state-save 
area, need to be saved in a non-volatile storage location if a processor reset occurs. The SMM handler 
should execute the CPUID instruction to determine the feature set available in the processor, and be 
able to save and restore the registers required by those features. For more information on using the 
CPUID instruction, see Section 3.3, “Processor Feature Identification,” on page 71.
The SMM handler can execute any of the 128-bit media, 64-bit media, or x87 instructions. A simple 
method for saving and restoring those registers is to use the FXSAVE and FXRSTOR instructions, 
respectively, if it is supported by the processor. See “Saving Media and x87 Execution Unit State” on 
page 349 for information on saving and restoring those registers.
Floating-point exceptions can occur when the SMM handler uses media or x87 floating-point 
instructions. If the SMM handler uses floating-point exception handlers, they must follow the usage 
guidelines established in “Exceptions and Interrupts” on page 335. A simple method for dealing with 
floating-point exceptions while in SMM is to simply mask all exception conditions using the 
appropriate floating-point control register. When the exceptions are masked, the processor handles 
floating-point exceptions internally in a default manner, and allows execution to continue 
uninterrupted.
10.3.6  Operating in Protected Mode and Long Mode
Software can enable protected mode from SMM and it can also enable and activate long mode. An 
SMM handler can use this capability to enter 64-bit mode and save additional processor state that 
cannot be accessed from outside 64-bit mode (for example, the most-significant 32 bits of CR2).
10.3.7  Auto-Halt Restart
The auto-halt restart entry is located at offset FEC9h in the SMM state-save area. The size of this field 
is one byte, as compared with two bytes in previous versions of SMM.
[AMD Public Use]
