Machine Check Architecture
297
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
often correct hardware errors. When errors are corrected by hardware, system operation continues 
without any perceptible disruption or loss in performance. 
Another important technique that can prevent down-time is error containment. Error containment 
limits the propagation of an erroneous data. This enhances system availability by limiting the effects of 
errors to a subset of software or hardware resources. System software may either correct the error and 
resume the interrupted program or, if the error cannot be corrected, terminate software processes that 
cannot continue due to the error.
Error logging enhances serviceability by providing information that is used to identify the FRU that 
contains the failed circuitry. The mechanical design of the computer system can enhance serviceability 
(and thus availability) by making the task of physically replacing a failed FRU quicker and easier.
9.1.2  Error Detection, Logging, and Reporting
Error detection requires specific error-checking hardware that compares the actual result of some data 
transfer or transformation to the expected result. Any disparity indicates that an error has occurred. 
Error detection is controlled through implementation-specific means. Disabling detection is normally 
only appropriate when hardware is being debugged in the laboratory. 
When an error is detected, hardware autonomously acts to either correct the error or contain the 
propagation of the corrupting effects of an uncorrected error. For some error sources, hardware action 
can be disabled by software through the MCA interface.
As hardware acts to correct or contain a detected error, it gathers information about the error to aid in 
recovery, diagnosis, and repair. The architecture provides software control of error logging and 
reporting. The following describes the characteristics of each:
•
Logging
Logging involves saving information about the error in specific MCA registers. If the error 
reporting bank associated with the error source is enabled, logging occurs; if disabled, error 
information is generally discarded (there are implementation-specific exceptions). 
•
Reporting
An uncorrected error may be reported to system software via a machine-check exception, if error 
reporting for the specific error source is enabled.
Reporting is the hardware-initiated action of interrupting the processor using a machine-check 
exception (#MC). Reporting for each specific error type can be enabled or disabled by system software 
though the MCA register interface. Even if reporting for an error type is disabled, logging may 
continue.
Disabling reporting can negatively impact both error containment and error recovery (see the next 
section) and should be avoided.
[AMD Public Use]
