Secure Virtual Machine
577
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
If the entry is valid, but the Guest Physical APIC ID is greater than 255, cause a #VMEXIT 
(xAVIC).
If the entry is valid, but contains an invalid backing page pointer, cause a #VMEXIT.
4. Lookup the vAPIC backing page address in the Physical APIC table using the guest physical 
APIC ID as an index into the table.
For directed interrupts, if the selected table entry is not valid, cause a #VMEXIT. For broadcast 
IPIs, invalid entries are ignored.
5. For every valid destination:
-
Atomically set the appropriate IRR bit in each of the destinations’ vAPIC backing page.
-
Check the IsRunning status of each destination.
-
If the destination IsRunning bit is set, send a doorbell message using the host physical core 
number from the Physical APIC ID table.
6. If any destinations are identified as not currently scheduled on a physical core (i.e., the IsRunning 
bit for that virtual processor is not set), cause a #VMEXIT.
Refer to Section 15.29.9.1, “AVIC IPI Delivery Not Completed,” on page 580 for new exit codes 
associated with the #VMEXIT exceptions listed above.
15.29.6.2  Device Interrupts
The delivery of a I/O device interrupt to a virtual processor is handled by an IOMMU with virtual 
interrupt capability. To deliver a virtual interrupt, I/O virtualization hardware executes the following 
steps:
1. An interrupt message arrives from the I/O device identifying the source device and interrupt 
vector number. 
2. I/O virtualization hardware uses the device ID to determine the guest physical APIC ID of the 
core that is the target of the device interrupt.
3. I/O virtualization hardware uses the guest physical APID ID to index into the Physical APIC ID 
Table to find the SPA of the vAPIC backing page. If the I/O virtualization hardware accesses an 
entry in the Physical APIC ID Table that is not valid (V bit is cleared), the I/O virtualization 
hardware aborts the virtual interrupt delivery and logs an error.
4. I/O virtualization hardware performs any required vector number translation.
5. I/O virtualization hardware atomically sets the bit in the IRR in the vAPIC backing page that 
corresponds to the vector.
6. If the virtual processor that is the target of the interrupt is not currently running on its assigned 
physical core, the virtual interrupt will be presented when the virtual processor is made active 
again. I/O virtualization hardware may provide additional information to the VMM about the 
device interrupt to aid in virtual processor scheduling decisions.
If the virtual processor that is the target of the interrupt is scheduled on a physical processor 
(indicated by the IsRunning bit of the Physical APIC ID table entry being set), I/O virtualization 
[AMD Public Use]
