174
System Instructions
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
A disadvantage of segment-based protection and privilege checking is the overhead associated with 
loading a new segment selector (and its corresponding descriptor) into a segment register. Even when 
using the flat-memory model, this overhead still occurs when switching between privilege levels 
because code segments (CS) and stack segments (SS) are reloaded with different segment descriptors.
To initiate a call to the operating system, an application transfers control to the operating system 
through a gate descriptor (call, interrupt, trap, or task gate). In the past, control was transferred using 
either a far CALL instruction or a software interrupt. Transferring control through one of these gates is 
slowed by the segmentation-related overhead, as is the later return using a far RET or IRET 
instruction. The following checks are performed when control is transferred in this manner:
•
Selectors, gate descriptors, and segment descriptors are in the proper form.
•
Descriptors lie within the bounds of the descriptor tables.
•
Gate descriptors reference the appropriate segment descriptors.
•
The caller, gate, and target privileges all allow the control transfer to take place.
•
The stack created by the call has sufficient properties to allow the transfer to take place.
In addition to these call-gate checks, other checks are made involving the task-state segment when a 
task switch occurs.
6.1.1  SYSCALL and SYSRET
SYSCALL and SYSRET Instructions.  SYSCALL and SYSRET are low-latency system call and 
return instructions. These instructions assume the operating system implements a flat-memory model, 
which greatly simplifies calls to and returns from the operating system. This simplification comes 
from eliminating unneeded checks, and by loading pre-determined values into the CS and SS segment 
registers (both visible and hidden portions). As a result, SYSCALL and SYSRET can take fewer than 
one-fourth the number of internal clock cycles to complete than the legacy CALL and RET 
instructions. SYSCALL and SYSRET are particularly well-suited for use in 64-bit mode, which 
requires implementation of a paged, flat-memory model. 
SYSCALL and SYSRET require that the code-segment base, limit, and attributes (except for DPL) are 
consistent for all application and system processes. Only the DPL is allowed to vary. The processor 
assumes (but does not check) that the SYSCALL target CS segment descriptor entry has DPL=0 and 
the SYSRET target CS segment descriptor entry has DPL=3. 
For details on the SYSCALL and SYSRET instructions, see “System Instruction Reference” in 
Volume 3. 
Because SYSCALL and SYSRET do not use the program stack to store return addresses, the shadow 
stack mechanism is not used to validate their return addresses. However, when shadow stacks are 
enabled, SYSCALL and SYSRET save and restore the current SSP as follows:
•
If the shadow stack feature is enabled at the current CPL (typically CPL=3), SYSCALL saves the
current SSP to the PL3_SSP MSR
•
If shadow stacks are enabled at the target CPL (CPL=0), SYSCALL clears the SSP to 0.
[AMD Public Use]
