406
Software Debug and Performance Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
13.1.3.2  Data Breakpoints
Data breakpoints are set by loading a breakpoint-address register (DRn) with the desired data virtual-
address, and then setting the corresponding DR7 fields as follows:
•
Ln or Gn is set to 1 to enable the breakpoint for either the local task or all tasks, respectively.
•
R/Wn is set to 01b to specify that the data virtual-address is compared with the contents of DRn 
only during a memory-write. Setting this field to 11b specifies that the comparison takes place 
during both memory reads and memory writes.
•
LENn is set to 00b, 01b, 11b, or 10b to specify an address-match range of one, two, four, or eight 
bytes, respectively. Long mode must be active to set LENn to 10b.
When a #DB exception occurs due to a data breakpoint address in DRn, the corresponding Bn field in 
DR6 is set to 1 to indicate that a breakpoint condition occurred. The breakpoint occurs after the data-
access instruction is executed, which means that the original data is overwritten by the data-access 
instruction. If the debug handler needs to report the previous data value, it must save that value before 
setting the breakpoint.
Because the breakpoint occurs after the data-access instruction is executed, the address of the 
instruction following the data-access instruction is pushed onto the debug-handler stack. Repeated 
string instructions, however, can trigger a breakpoint before all iterations of the repeat loop have 
completed. When this happens, the address of the string instruction is pushed onto the stack during a 
#DB exception if the repeat loop is not complete. A subsequent IRET from the #DB handler returns to 
the string instruction, causing the remaining iterations to be executed. Most implementations cannot 
report breakpoints exactly for repeated string instructions, but instead report the breakpoint on an 
iteration later than the iteration where the breakpoint occurred.
13.1.3.3  I/O Breakpoints
I/O breakpoints are set by loading a breakpoint-address register (DRn) with the I/O-port address to be 
trapped, and then setting the corresponding DR7 fields as follows:
•
Ln or Gn is set to 1 to enable the breakpoint for either the local task or all tasks, respectively.
•
R/Wn is set to 10b to specify that the I/O-port address is compared with the contents of DRn only 
during execution of an I/O instruction. This encoding of R/Wn is valid only when debug 
extensions are enabled (CR4[DE] = 1).
•
LENn is set to 00b, 01b, or 11b to specify the breakpoint occurs on a byte, word, or doubleword 
I/O operation, respectively.
The I/O-port address specified by the I/O instruction is zero extended by the processor to 64 bits before 
comparing it with the DRn registers.
When a #DB exception occurs due to an I/O breakpoint in DRn, the corresponding Bn field in DR6 is 
set to 1 to indicate that a breakpoint condition occurred. The breakpoint occurs after the instruction is 
executed, which means that the original data is overwritten by the breakpoint instruction. If the debug 
handler needs to report the previous data value, it must save that value before setting the breakpoint.
[AMD Public Use]
