208
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Cache Disable.  Bit 30 of the CR0 register is the cache-disable bit, CR0.CD. Caching is enabled 
when CR0.CD is cleared to 0, and caching is disabled when CR0.CD is set to 1. When caching is 
disabled, reads and writes access main memory.
Software can disable the cache while the cache still holds valid data (or instructions). If a read or write 
hits the L1 data cache or the L2 cache when CR0.CD=1, the processor does the following:
1. Writes the cache line back if it is in the modified or owned state.
2. Invalidates the cache line.
3. Performs a non-cacheable main-memory access to read or write the data.
If an instruction fetch hits the L1 instruction cache when CR0.CD=1, some processor models may read 
the cached instructions rather than access main memory. When CR0.CD=1, the exact behavior of L2 
and L3 caches is model-dependent, and may vary for different types of memory accesses.
The processor also responds to cache probes when CR0.CD=1. Probes that hit the cache cause the 
processor to perform Step 1. Step 2 (cache-line invalidation) is performed only if the probe is 
performed on behalf of a memory write or an exclusive read.
Writethrough Disable.  Bit 29 of the CR0 register is the not writethrough disable bit, CR0.NW. In 
early x86 processors, CR0.NW is used to control cache writethrough behavior, and the combination of 
CR0.NW and CR0.CD determines the cache operating mode.
In early x86 processors, clearing CR0.NW to 0 enables writeback caching for main memory, 
effectively disabling writethrough caching for main memory. When CR0.NW=0, software can disable 
writeback caching for specific memory pages or regions by using other cache control mechanisms. 
When software sets CR0.NW to 1, writeback caching is disabled for main memory, while 
writethrough caching is enabled.
In implementations of the AMD64 architecture, CR0.NW is not used to qualify the cache operating 
mode established by CR0.CD. Table 7-5 shows the effects of CR0.NW and CR0.CD on the AMD64 
architecture cache-operating modes.
Page-Level Cache Disable.  Bit 4 of all paging data-structure entries controls page-level cache 
disable (PCD). When a data-structure-entry PCD bit is cleared to 0, the page table or physical page 
pointed to by that entry is cacheable, as determined by the CR0.CD bit. When the PCD bit is set to 1, 
the page table or physical page is not cacheable. The PCD bit in the paging data-structure base-register 
Table 7-5.
AMD64 Architecture Cache-Operating Modes
CR0.CD
CR0.NW
Cache Operating Mode
0
0
Cache enabled with a writeback-caching policy.
0
1
Invalid setting—causes a general-protection exception (#GP).
1
0
Cache disabled. See “Cache Disable” on page 208.
1
1
[AMD Public Use]
