Machine Check Architecture
303
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
 
Figure 9-2.
MCG_STATUS Register
The fields within the MCG_STATUS register are:
•
Restart-IP Valid (RIPV)—Bit 0. When this bit is set to 1, the interrupted program can be reliably 
restarted at the instruction addressed by the instruction pointer pushed onto the stack by the 
machine-check error mechanism. If this bit is cleared to 0, the interrupted program cannot be 
reliably restarted.
•
Error-IP Valid (EIPV)—Bit 1. When this bit is set to 1, the process thread that was interrupted by 
the #MC is responsible for the machine-check error, which occurred at the privilege level indicated 
by the CS selector that was pushed on the stack by the exception. If this bit is cleared to 0, it is 
possible that the interrupted thread is not responsible for the machine-check error.
•
Machine Check In-Progress (MCIP)—Bit 2. When this bit is set to 1, it indicates that a machine-
check error is in progress. If another machine-check error occurs while this bit is set, the processor 
enters the shutdown state. The processor sets this bit whenever a machine check exception is 
generated. Software is responsible for clearing it after the machine check exception is handled.
All remaining bits in the MCG_STATUS register are reserved.
9.3.1.3  Machine-Check Global-Control Register
Figure 9-3 shows the format of the machine-check global-control register (MCG_CTL). MCG_CTL is 
used by software to enable or disable the logging and reporting of machine-check errors from the 
implemented error-reporting banks. Depending on the implementation, detected errors from some 
error sources associated with a reporting bank that is disabled are still logged. Setting all bits to 1 in 
this register enables all implemented error-reporting register banks to log errors.
63
32
Reserved
31
3
2
1
0
Reserved
MCIP
EIPV
RIPV
Bits
Mnemonic
Description
Access type
63:3
Reserved
RAZ
2
MCIP
Machine Check In-Progress
R/W
1
EIPV
Error IP Valid Flag
R/W
0
RIPV
Restart IP Valid Flag
R/W
[AMD Public Use]
