488
Processor Initialization and Long Mode Activation
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
A GDT which contains:
-
A code descriptor for the code segment that is executed in protected mode.
-
A read/write data segment that can be used as a protected-mode stack. This stack can be used
by the interrupt mechanism if interrupts or exceptions occur.
Software can optionally load the GDT with one or more data segment descriptors, a TSS descriptor, 
and an LDT descriptor for use by long-mode initialization software.
After the protected-mode data structures are initialized, system software must load the IDTR and 
GDTR with pointers to those data structures. Once these registers are initialized, protected mode can 
be enabled by setting CR0.PE to 1.
If legacy paging is used during the long-mode initialization process, the page-translation tables must 
be initialized before enabling paging. At a minimum, one page directory and one page table are 
required to support page translation. The CR3 register must be loaded with the starting physical 
address of the highest-level table supported in the page-translation hierarchy. After these structures are 
initialized and protected mode is enabled, paging can be enabled by setting CR0.PG to 1.
14.5
Initializing Long Mode
From protected mode, system software can initialize the data structures required by long mode and 
store them anywhere in the first 4 Gbytes of physical memory. These data structures can be relocated 
above 4 Gbytes once long mode is activated. The data structures required by long mode include the 
following:
•
An IDT with 64-bit interrupt-gate descriptors. Long-mode interrupts are always taken in 64-bit
mode, and the 64-bit gate descriptors are used to transfer control to interrupt handlers running in
64-bit mode. See “Long-Mode Interrupt Control Transfers” on page 281 for more information.
•
The 64-bit mode interrupt and exception handlers to be used in 64-bit mode. Gate descriptors for
each handler must be loaded in the 64-bit IDT.
•
A GDT containing segment descriptors for software running in 64-bit mode and compatibility
mode, including:
-
Any LDT descriptors required by the operating system or application software.
-
A TSS descriptor for the single 64-bit TSS required by long mode. 
-
Code descriptors for the code segments that are executed in long mode. The code-segment
descriptors are used to specify whether the processor is operating in 64-bit mode or
compatibility mode. See “Code-Segment Descriptors” on page 97, “Long (L) Attribute Bit” on
page 98, and “CS Register” on page 79 for more information.
-
Data-segment descriptors for software running in compatibility mode. The DS, ES, and SS
segments are ignored in 64-bit mode. See “Data-Segment Descriptors” on page 98 for more
information.
[AMD Public Use]
