692
Platform Quality of Service (PQOS) Extension
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
19
Platform Quality of Service (PQOS) 
Extension
The AMD PQOS Extension provides system software (operating system, hypervisor, or similar 
software) with mechanisms to monitor usage of shared platform resources such as L3 cache by a 
logical processor, thread, application, or guest OS. The PQOS extension also provides system software 
with the ability to set and enforce limits on usage of certain shared platform resources.
In shared environments, such as those found in cloud computing installations, multiple threads, or 
applications contending for a shared resource can cause significant impact to collocated workloads. 
For example, contention for a resource such as the last-level cache may cause violation of service-level 
objectives. Contention for shared resources may also cause latency spikes that violate runtime 
objectives of latency-sensitive tasks. The PQOS extension can be used to minimize the effects of 
contention for shared resources from co-located workloads.
19.1
PQOS Extension Overview
The PQOS extension provides for the monitoring of the usage of certain shared resources and, 
separately, for the enforcement of limits on the use of shared resources. 
The monitoring and enforcement functions of PQOS are not necessarily applied across the entire 
system, but in general apply to a QOS Domain, which corresponds to a level in the processor hardware 
hierarchy containing a shared resource. In some implementations, the QOS Domain is a Core-
Complex and the shared resource whose usage is monitored or regulated by PQOS is the last-level 
cache. 
Platform QOS features are implemented on a logical processor basis. Therefore, multiple threads 
(logical processors) in a single CPU core have independent PQOS resource monitoring and 
enforcement configurations.
The set of resources that may be monitored, and the set for which limits can be enforced, are 
implementation-dependent and enumerated by a CPUID function on a feature and sub-feature basis, as 
described in the following sections.
The PQOS extension consists of two separate but related features—PQOS Monitoring (PQM) and 
PQOS Enforcement (PQE). 
The PQM feature provides mechanisms for monitoring the usage of shared resources. The set of 
resources that can be monitored and the specific usage metrics that may be tracked for those resources 
are implementation-dependent and enumerated by CPUID (see Section 19.2.1).   
[AMD Public Use]
