26
x86 and AMD64 Architecture Differences
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
PAE—When physical-address extensions are enabled (CR4.PAE=1), the AMD64 architecture
allows legacy-mode software to load up to 52-bit (maximum size) physical addresses into the PDE
and PTE. Note that addresses are expanded to the maximum physical address size supported by the
implementation.
•
PSE—The use of page-size extensions allows legacy mode software to define 4-Mbyte pages
using the 32-bit page-translation tables. When page-size extensions are enabled (CR4.PSE=1), the
AMD64 architecture enhances the 4-Mbyte PDE to support 40 physical-address bits.
See “Legacy-Mode Page Translation” on page 131 for more information on these enhancements.
2.2.3  Segmentation
In long mode, the effects of segmentation depend on whether the processor is running in compatibility 
mode or 64-bit mode:
•
In compatibility mode, segmentation functions just as it does in legacy mode, using legacy 16-bit
or 32-bit protected mode semantics. 
•
64-bit mode requires a flat-memory model for creating a flat 64-bit virtual-address space. Much of
the segmentation capability present in legacy mode and compatibility mode is disabled when the
processor is running in 64-bit mode.
The differences in the segmentation model as defined by the AMD64 architecture are summarized in 
the following sections. See Chapter 4, “Segmented Virtual Memory,” for a thorough description of 
these differences.
Descriptor-Table Registers.  In long mode, the base-address portion of the descriptor-table registers 
(GDTR, IDTR, LDTR, and TR) are expanded to 64 bits. The full 64-bit base address can only be 
loaded by software when the processor is running in 64-bit mode (using the LGDT, LIDT, LLDT, and 
LTR instructions, respectively). However, the full 64-bit base address is used by a processor running in 
compatibility mode (in addition to 64-bit mode) when making a reference into a descriptor table. 
A processor running in legacy mode can only load the low 32 bits of the base address, and the high 32 
bits are ignored when references are made to the descriptor tables.
Code-Segment Descriptors.  The AMD64 architecture defines a new code-segment descriptor 
attribute, L (long). In compatibility mode, the processor treats code-segment descriptors as it does in 
legacy mode, with the exception that the processor recognizes the L attribute. If a code descriptor with 
L=1 is loaded in compatibility mode, the processor leaves compatibility mode and enters 64-bit mode. 
In legacy mode, the L attribute is reserved.
The following differences exist for code-segment descriptors in 64-bit mode only:
•
The CS base-address field is ignored by the processor.
•
The CS limit field is ignored by the processor.
•
Only the L (long), D (default size), and DPL (descriptor-privilege level) fields are used by the
processor in 64-bit mode. All remaining attributes are ignored.
[AMD Public Use]
