336
System-Management Mode
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
Debug Interrupts—The processor disables the debug interrupts when SMM is entered by clearing
DR7 to 0 and clearing RFLAGS.TF to 0. The SMM handler can re-enable the debug facilities
while in SMM, but it must follow the guidelines listed below for handling interrupts.
•
INIT—The processor does not recognize INIT while in SMM.
Because the RFLAGS.IF bit is cleared when entering SMM, the HLT instruction should not be 
executed in SMM without first setting the RFLAGS.IF bit to 1. Setting this bit to 1 allows the 
processor to exit the halt state by using an external maskable interrupt.
In the cases where an SMM handler must accept and handle interrupts and exceptions, several 
guidelines must be followed:
•
Interrupt handlers must be loaded and accessible before enabling interrupts.
•
A real-mode interrupt vector table located at virtual (linear) address 0 is required.
•
Segments accessed by the interrupt handler cannot have a base address greater than 20 bits because
of the real-mode addressing used in SMM. In SMM, the 16-bit value stored in the segment-selector
register is left-shifted four bits to form the 20-bit segment-base address, like real mode.
•
Only the IP (rIP[15:0]) is pushed onto the stack as a result of an interrupt in SMM, because of the
real-mode addressing used in SMM. If the SMM handler is interrupted at a code-segment offset
above 64 Kbytes, then the return address on the stack must be adjusted by the interrupt-handler,
and a RET instruction with a 32-bit operand-size override must be used to return to the SMM
handler.
•
If the interrupt-handler is located below 1 Mbyte, and the SMM handler is located above 1 Mbyte,
a RET instruction cannot be used to return to the SMM handler. In this case, the interrupt handler
can adjust the return pointer on the stack, and use a far CALL to transfer control back to the SMM
handler.
10.3.4  Invalidating the Caches
The processor can cache SMRAM-memory locations. If the system implements physically separate 
SMRAM and system memory, it is possible for SMRAM and system memory locations to alias into 
identical cache locations. In some processor implementations, the cache contents must be written to 
memory and invalidated when SMM is entered and exited. This prevents the processor from using 
previously-cached main-memory locations as aliases for SMRAM-memory locations when SMM is 
entered, and vice-versa when SMM is exited. 
Implementations of the AMD64 architecture do not require cache invalidation when entering and 
exiting SMM. Internally, the processor keeps track of SMRAM and system-memory accesses 
separately and properly handles situations where aliasing occurs. Cached system memory and 
SMRAM locations can persist across SMM mode changes. Removal of the requirement to writeback 
and invalidate the cache simplifies SMM entry and exit and allows SMM code to execute more 
rapidly. 
[AMD Public Use]
