24
x86 and AMD64 Architecture Differences
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
systems. Legacy mode supports real mode, protected mode, and virtual-8086 mode. A reset always 
places the processor in legacy mode (real mode), and the processor continues to run in legacy mode 
until system software activates long mode. New features added by the AMD64 architecture that are 
supported in legacy mode are summarized in this chapter.
2.1.3  System-Management Mode
The AMD64 architecture supports system-management mode (SMM). SMM can be entered from both 
long mode and legacy mode, and SMM can return directly to either mode. The following differences 
exist between the support of SMM in the AMD64 architecture and the SMM support found in previous 
processor generations:
•
The SMRAM state-save area format is changed to hold the 64-bit processor state. This state-save
area format is used regardless of whether SMM is entered from long mode or legacy mode.
•
The auto-halt restart and I/O-instruction restart entries in the SMRAM state-save area are one byte
instead of two bytes.
•
The initial processor state upon entering SMM is expanded to reflect the 64-bit nature of the
processor.
•
New conditions exist that can cause a processor shutdown while exiting SMM.
•
SMRAM caching considerations are modified because the legacy FLUSH# external signal
(writeback, if modified, and invalidate) is not supported on implementations of the AMD64
architecture.
See Chapter 10, “System-Management Mode,” for more information on the SMM differences.
2.2
Memory Model
The AMD64 architecture provides enhancements to the legacy memory model to support very large 
physical-memory and virtual-memory spaces while in long mode. Some of this expanded support for 
physical memory is available in legacy mode.
2.2.1  Memory Addressing
Virtual-Memory Addressing.  Virtual-memory support is expanded to 64 address bits in long mode. 
This allows up to 16 exabytes of virtual-address space to be accessed. The virtual-address space 
supported in legacy mode is unchanged.
Physical-Memory Addressing.  Physical-memory support is expanded to 52 address bits in long 
mode and legacy mode. This allows up to 4 petabytes of physical memory to be accessed. The 
expanded physical-memory support is achieved by using paging and the page-size extensions.
Note that given processor may implement less than the architecturally-defined physical address size of 
52 bits.
[AMD Public Use]
