686
Shadow Stacks
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
For task switches originating at supervisor-level (CPL=0,1,2) and returning to CPL=3, the SSP is 
restored from PL3_SSP, otherwise the SSP is restored from the current shadow stack. The return 
CS and LIP are read from the current shadow stack and compared to the CS and linear form of the 
EIP in the TSS of the incoming task. A control-protection (#CP) exception is generated if the 
return addresses do not match.
18.9
Restricting Speculative Execution of RET targets
When shadow stacks are enabled, the processor will not speculatively execute instructions from a RET 
address on the program stack unless the address matches the corresponding address on the shadow 
stack, or the target of the RET is predicted by a return address branch prediction mechanism. 
18.10
Shadow Stack Switching Using RSTORSSP
As previously described in Section 18.6.1, “Shadow Stack Switching,” on page 680, the processor 
automatically switches shadow stacks as part of the inter-privilege far transfer mechanism. In order to 
allow programs to switch stacks at other times (when performing operations such as initializing a 
shadow stack or recovering from a #CP fault) the RSTORSSP and SAVEPREVSSP instructions are 
provided. 
The RSTORSSP instruction is used to switch shadow stacks. The instruction expects to find a shadow 
stack restore token at the top of the proposed new shadow stack. Upon validating this token, 
RSTORSSP points the SSP to the top of the new shadow stack and sets the token’s busy bit, making 
the new shadow stack ready for use.
Upon successful completion, the RSTORSSP instruction modifies the restore token by saving the old 
SSP into the token’s SSP Restore Value field in order to facilitate a later return to the old shadow stack.
The shadow stack restore token used by RSTORSSP is formatted as follows:
Figure 18-4.
Shadow Stack Restore Token
The shadow stack restore token fields are defined as follows:
SSP Restore value. Bits 63:2 of the linear address of this token. Replaced by the previous SSP upon 
successful completion of the RSTORSSP instruction.
Busy. Initially must be 0. Set to 1 upon successful completion of the RSTORSSP instruction.
Mode. If 0, this indicates the shadow stack restore token is for use in legacy or compatibility mode. If 
1, this indicates the restore token is for use in 64-bit mode.
63
2
1
0
SSP Restore Value / Token Address
Busy
Mode
[AMD Public Use]
