Page Translation and Protection
155
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
(512 512 512) physical pages it maps through the lower-level translation tables. When the R/W bit 
is cleared to 0, access is restricted to read-only. When the R/W bit is set to 1, both read and write access 
is allowed. See “Page-Protection Checks” on page 161 for a description of the paging read/write 
protection mechanism.
User/Supervisor (U/S) Bit.  Bit 2. This bit controls user (CPL 3) access to all physical pages mapped 
by the table entry. For example, a page-map level-4 U/S bit controls the access allowed to all 128M 
(512 512 512) physical pages it maps through the lower-level translation tables. When the U/S bit 
is cleared to 0, access is restricted to supervisor level (CPL 0, 1, 2). When the U/S bit is set to 1, both 
user and supervisor access is allowed. See “Page-Protection Checks” on page 161 for a description of 
the paging user/supervisor protection mechanism.
Page-Level Writethrough (PWT) Bit.  Bit 3. This bit indicates whether the page-translation table or 
physical page to which this entry points has a writeback or writethrough caching policy. When the 
PWT bit is cleared to 0, the table or physical page has a writeback caching policy. When the PWT bit is 
set to 1, the table or physical page has a writethrough caching policy. See “Memory Caches” on 
page 204 for additional information on caching. If the processor supports the Page-Attribute Table 
Mechanism, this bit is used in constructing an index into the PAT register. See Section 7.8 “Page-
Attribute Table Mechanism” on page 227.
Page-Level Cache Disable (PCD) Bit.  Bit 4. This bit indicates whether the page-translation table or 
physical page to which this entry points is cacheable. When the PCD bit is cleared to 0, the table or 
physical page is cacheable. When the PCD bit is set to 1, the table or physical page is not cacheable. 
See “Memory Caches” on page 204 for additional information on caching. If the processor supports 
the Page-Attribute Table Mechanism, this bit is used in constructing an index into the PAT register. See 
Section 7.8 “Page-Attribute Table Mechanism” on page 227.
Accessed (A) Bit.  Bit 5. This bit indicates whether the page-translation table or physical page to 
which this entry points has been accessed. The A bit is set to 1 by the processor the first time the table 
or physical page is either read from or written to. The A bit is never cleared by the processor. Instead, 
software must clear this bit to 0 when it needs to track the frequency of table or physical-page accesses.
Dirty (D) Bit.  Bit 6. This bit is only present in the lowest level of the page-translation hierarchy. It 
indicates whether the physical page to which this entry points has been written. The D bit is set to 1 by 
the processor the first time there is a write to the physical page. The D bit is never cleared by the 
processor. Instead, software must clear this bit to 0 when it needs to track the frequency of physical-
page writes.
Page Size (PS) Bit.  Bit 7. This bit is present in page-directory entries and long-mode page-directory-
pointer entries. When the PS bit is set in the page-directory-pointer entry (PDPE) or page-directory 
entry (PDE), that entry is the lowest level of the page-translation hierarchy. When the PS bit is cleared 
to 0 in all levels above PTE, the lowest level of the page-translation hierarchy is the page-table entry 
(PTE), and the physical-page size is 4 Kbytes. The physical-page size is determined as follows:
•
If EFER.LMA=1 and PDPE.PS=1, the physical-page size is 1 Gbyte.
•
If CR4.PAE=0 and PDE.PS=1, the physical-page size is 4 Mbytes. 
[AMD Public Use]
