72
System Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
The desired function number is loaded into the EAX register before executing the CPUID instruction. 
CPUID functions are divided into two types:
•
Standard functions return information about features common to all x86 implementations,
including the earliest features offered in the x86 architecture, as well as information about the
presence of features such as support for the AVX and FMA instruction subsets. Standard function
numbers are in the range 0000_0000h–0000_FFFFh.
•
Extended functions return information about AMD-specific features such as long mode and the
presence of features such as support for the FMA4 and XOP instruction subsets. Extended function
numbers are in the range 8000_0000h–8000_FFFFh.
Feature information is returned in the EAX, EBX, ECX, and EDX registers. Some functions accept a 
second input parameter passed to the instruction in the ECX register. 
In this and the other three volumes of this Programmer’s Manual, the notation CPUID 
FnXXXX_XXXX_RRR[FieldName]_xYY is used to represent the input parameters and return value that 
corresponds to a particular processor capability or feature.
In this notation, XXXX_XXXX represents the 32-bit value to be placed in the EAX register prior to 
executing the CPUID instruction. This value is the function number. RRR is either EAX, EBX, ECX, 
or EDX and represents the register to be examined after the execution of the instruction. If the contents 
of the entire 32-bit register provides the capability information, the notation [FieldName] is omitted, 
otherwise this provides the name of the field within the return value that represents the capability or 
feature.
When the field is a single bit, this is called a feature flag. Normally, if a feature flag bit is set, the 
corresponding processor feature is supported and if it is cleared, the feature is not supported. The 
optional input parameter passed to the CPUID instruction in the ECX register is represented by the 
notation _xYY appended after the return value notation. If a CPUID function does not accept this 
optional input parameter, this notation is omitted.
For more specific information on the CPUID instruction, see the instruction reference page in Volume 
3. For a description of all feature flags related to instruction subset support, see Volume 3, Appendix 
D, “Instruction Subsets and CPUID Feature Flags.” For a comprehensive list of all processor 
capabilities and feature flags, see Volume 3, Appendix E, “Obtaining Processor Information Via the 
CPUID Instruction.”
[AMD Public Use]
