Memory System
207
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Asynchronous modification.  This is done with a write to the target instruction stream with no 
particular coordination being done between the writing and receiving threads. The nature of the code 
being executed by the target thread is such that it is insensitive to the exact timing of the update, for 
example executing in a known loop until an update to a branch instruction's offset takes it down a new 
path (or an update to an immediate operand, or opcode, or other instruction field). Such modifications 
must be done via a single store to the target thread's instruction stream that is contained entirely within 
a naturally-aligned quadword, and is subject to the constraints given here. A key aspect is that, 
although the store is performed atomically, the affected quadword may be read more than once in the 
process of extracting instruction bytes from it. This can result in the following scenarios resulting from 
a single store:
1. An update to two successive instructions, A and B, to A' and B' may result in execution of an A-B'
sequence rather than A'-B'. However it will not result in an A'-B sequence since stores become
visible to instruction fetchers in program order, and instruction fetchers read memory sequentially
between taken branches.
2. A modification to one instruction A that changes it to two instructions A'-B will only result in
execution of A'-B. 
3. A modification to two instructions A-B that combines them into one instruction A' may result in a
sequence of A-X, where X starts at the point in A' where B previously started. 
Note that since stores to the instruction stream are observed by the instruction fetcher in program 
order, one can do multiple modifications to an area of the target thread's code that is beyond reach of 
the thread's current control flow, followed by a final asynchronous update that alters the control flow to 
expose the modified code to fetching and execution.
If the desired action cannot be achieved within these constraints, a synchronous modification approach 
must be used for reliable operation.
Synchronous modification.   This entails a producer-consumer approach to the modification, where 
the target thread waits on a signal from the modifying thread, such as changing the state of a shared 
variable, before executing the modified code. The modifying thread writes to the target instruction 
bytes in any desired manner, then writes the synchronizing variable to release the target thread. Upon 
release, the target thread must then execute a serializing instruction such as CPUID or MFENCE (a 
locked operation is not sufficient) before proceeding to the modified code to avoid executing a stale 
view of the instructions which may have been speculatively fetched. Note that such speculative 
fetching is a function of branch predictor operation which is completely beyond the control of 
software.
See Volume 1, Chapter 3, “Semaphores,” for a discussion of instructions that are useful for 
interprocessor synchronization.
7.6.2  Cache Control Mechanisms
The AMD64 architecture provides a number of mechanisms for controlling the cacheability of 
memory. These are described in the following sections.
[AMD Public Use]
