194
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
To maintain memory coherency, processors need to acquire the most recent copy of data before 
caching it internally. That copy can be in main memory or in the internal caches of other devices. 
When a processor has a cache read-miss or write-miss, it probes the other processors to determine 
whether the most recent copy of data is held in any of their caches and to perform cache state 
transitions if necessary. If one of the other caches holds the most recent copy, it may provide it to the 
requesting processor. The cache-line may be returned to the requesting processor in any of four 
conditions: read-only and clean, read-only and written, writable and clean, or writable and written. 
Otherwise, the most recent copy is provided by main memory.
There are two general types of probes:
•
Probe-for-read indicates the external processor is requesting the data for read purposes.
•
Probe-for-write indicates the external processor is requesting the data for the purpose of modifying
it, or a processor has executed a CLFLUSH.
Referring back to Figure 7-2 on page 170, the state transitions involving probes are initiated by other 
processors or bus-mastering devices. In addition, some read probes are initiated by I/O devices that do 
not intend to cache the data. Some processor implementations do not change the MOESDIF state if the 
read probe is initiated by a device that does not intend to cache the data.
Read hits do not cause a MOESDIF-state change. Write hits generally cause a MOESDIF-state change 
into the Modified state and may require probe-for-write activity to cause cache state transitions on 
other processors that have the data. If the cache line is already in the Modified state, a write hit does 
not change its state.
A state transition caused by a read, probe-for-read, or probe-for-write can be caused by prefetching or 
speculative execution.  Starting in family 17h, a transition to the Modified state does not occur 
speculatively, although the cache may still receive written data from another cache speculatively, 
putting the line into the Dirty state.
Some implementations may support a subset of the MOESDIF states. The specific operation of 
external-bus signals and transactions and how they influence a cache MOESDIF state are 
implementation dependent. For example, an implementation could convert a write miss to a WB 
memory type into two separate MOESDIF-state changes. The first would be a read-miss placing the 
cache line in the exclusive state. This would be followed by a write hit into the exclusive cache line, 
changing the cache-line state to Modified.
7.3.1  Special Coherency Considerations
In some cases, data can be modified in a manner that is impossible for the memory-coherency protocol 
to handle due to the effects of instruction prefetching. In such situations software must use serializing 
instructions and/or cache-invalidation instructions to ensure subsequent data accesses are coherent.
An example of this type of a situation is a page-table update followed by accesses to the physical pages 
referenced by the updated page tables. The following sequence of events shows what can happen when 
software changes the translation of virtual-page A from physical-page M to physical-page N:
[AMD Public Use]
