System-Programming Overview
15
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
1.3.5  System Management Mode (SMM)
System management mode (SMM) is an operating mode designed for system-control activities that are 
typically transparent to conventional system software. Power management is one popular use for 
system management mode. SMM is primarily targeted for use by platform firmware and specialized 
low-level device drivers. The code and data for SMM are stored in the SMM memory area, which is 
isolated from main memory by the SMM output signal.
SMM is entered by way of a system management interrupt (SMI). Upon recognizing an SMI, the 
processor enters SMM and switches to a separate address space where the SMM handler is located and 
executes. In SMM, the processor supports real-mode addressing with 4 Gbyte segment limits and 
default operand, address, and stack sizes of 16 bits (prefixes can be used to override these defaults).
1.4
System Registers
Figure 1-7 on page 16 shows the system registers defined for the AMD64 architecture. System 
software uses these registers to, among other things, manage the processor operating environment, 
define system resource characteristics, and to monitor software execution. With the exception of the 
RFLAGS register, system registers can be read and written only from privileged software. 
Except for the descriptor-table registers and task register, the AMD64 architecture defines all system 
registers to be 64 bits wide. The descriptor table and task registers are defined by the AMD64 
architecture to include 64-bit base-address fields, in addition to their other fields.
As shown in Figure 1-7 on page 16, the system registers include:
•
Control Registers—These registers are used to control system operation and some system features. 
See “System-Control Registers” on page 40 for details.
•
System-Flags Register—The RFLAGS register contains system-status flags and masks. It is also 
used to enable virtual-8086 mode and to control application access to I/O devices and interrupts. 
See “RFLAGS Register” on page 51 for details.
•
Descriptor-Table Registers—These registers contain the location and size of descriptor tables 
stored in memory. Descriptor tables hold segmentation data structures used in protected mode. See 
“Descriptor Tables” on page 82 for details.
•
Task Register—The task register contains the location and size in memory of the task-state 
segment. The hardware-multitasking mechanism uses the task-state segment to hold state 
information for a given task. The TSS also holds other data, such as the inner-level stack pointers 
used when changing to a higher privilege level. See “Task Register” on page 370 for details.
•
Debug Registers—Debug registers are used to control the software-debug mechanism, and to 
report information back to a debug utility or application. See “Debug Registers” on page 392 for 
details.
[AMD Public Use]
