534
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
15.21.4  Injecting Virtual (INTR) Interrupts
Virtual Interrupts allow the host to pass an interrupt (#INTR) to a guest. While inside a guest, the 
virtual interrupt follows the same rules that a real interrupt follows (virtual #INTR is not taken until 
EFLAGS.IF is 1, the guest's TPR has enabled interrupts at the same priority as that of the pending 
virtual interrupt).
SVM provides an efficient mechanism by which the VMM can inject virtual interrupts into a guest:
•
As described in Section 15.13.1, the VMM can intercept physical interrupts that arrive while a
guest is running, by activating the INTR intercept in the VMCB.
•
As described in Section 15.21.4, the VMM can virtualize the interrupt masking logic by setting the
V_INTR_MASKING bit in the VMCB.
•
The three VMCB fields V_IRQ, V_INTR_PRIO, and V_INTR_VECTOR indicate whether there
is a virtual interrupt pending, and, if so, what its vector number and priority are. The VMRUN
instruction loads this information into corresponding on-chip registers.
•
The processor takes a virtual INTR interrupt if:
-
V_IRQ and V_INTR_PRIO indicate that there is a virtual interrupt pending whose priority is 
greater than the value in V_TPR,
-
interrupts are enabled in EFLAGS.IF,
-
interrupts are enabled using GIF, and
-
the processor is not in an interrupt shadow (see Section 15.21.5).
The only other difference between virtual INTR handling and normal interrupt handling is that, in
the latter case, the interrupt vector is obtained from the V_INTR_VECTOR register (as opposed to
running an INTACK cycle to the local APIC).
•
The V_IGN_TPR field in the VMCB can be set to indicate that the currently pending virtual
interrupt is not subject to masking by TPR. The priority comparison against V_TPR is omitted in
this case. This mechanism can be used to inject ExtINT-type interrupts into the guest. 
•
When the processor dispatches a virtual interrupt (through the IDT), V_IRQ is cleared after
checking for intercepts of virtual interrupts and before the IDT is accessed.
•
On #VMEXIT, V_IRQ is written back to the VMCB, allowing the VMM to track whether a virtual
interrupt has been taken.
•
Physical interrupts take priority over virtual interrupts, whether they are taken directly or through a
#VMEXIT.
•
On #VMEXIT, the processor clears its internal copies of V_IRQ and V_INTR_MASKING, so
virtual interrupts do not remain pending in the VMM, and interrupt control reverts to normal.
15.21.5  Interrupt Shadows
The x86 architecture defines the notion of an interrupt shadow—a single-instruction window during 
which interrupts are not recognized. For example, the instruction after an STI instruction that sets 
EFLAGS.IF (from zero to one) does not recognize interrupts or certain debug traps. The VMCB 
[AMD Public Use]
