Software Debug and Performance Resources
391
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
13.1
Software-Debug Resources
Software can program breakpoints into the debug registers, causing a debug exception (#DB) when 
matches occur on instruction-memory addresses, data-memory addresses, or I/O addresses. The 
breakpoint exception (#BP) is also supported to allow software to set breakpoints by placing INT3 
instructions in the instruction memory for a program. Program control is transferred to the breakpoint 
exception (#BP) handler when an INT3 instruction is executed.
In addition to the debug features supported by the debug registers (DR0–DR7), the processor also 
supports features supported by model-specific registers (MSRs). Together, these capabilities provide a 
rich set of breakpoint conditions, including:
•
Breakpoint On Address Match—Breakpoints occur when the address stored in a address-
breakpoint register matches the address of an instruction or data reference. Up to four address-
match breakpoint conditions can be set by software.
•
Single Step All Instructions—Breakpoints can be set to occur on every instruction, allowing a 
debugger to examine the contents of registers as a program executes.
•
Single Step Control Transfers—Breakpoints can be set to occur on control transfers, such as calls, 
jumps, interrupts, and exceptions. This can allow a debugger to narrow a problem search to a 
specific section of code before enabling single stepping of all instructions.
•
Breakpoint On Any Instruction—Breakpoints can be set on any specific instruction using either the 
address-match breakpoint condition or using the INT3 instruction to force a breakpoint when the 
instruction is executed.
•
Breakpoint On Task Switch—Software forces a #DB exception to occur when a task switch is 
performed to a task with the T bit in the TSS set to 1. Debuggers can use this capability to enable or 
disable debug conditions for a specific task.
•
Breakpoint On Bus Lock —The processor generates a #DB exception as a trap following the 
successful execution of a locked read-modify-write operation that requires a bus lock and the 
current privilege level (CPL) was > 0. See Section 13.1.3.6  on page 407 for more information 
about Bus Lock traps. 
Problem areas can be identified rapidly using the information supplied by the debug registers when 
breakpoint conditions occur:
•
Special conditions that cause a #DB exception are recorded in the DR6 debug-status register, 
including breakpoints due to task switches and single stepping. The DR6 register also identifies 
which address-breakpoint register (DR0–DR3) caused a #DB exception due to an address match. 
When combined with the DR7 debug-control register settings, the cause of a #DB exception can be 
identified.
•
To assist in analyzing the instruction sequence a processor follows in reaching its current state, the 
source and destination addresses of control-transfer events are saved by the processor. These 
include branches (calls and jumps), interrupts, and exceptions. Debuggers can use this information 
to narrow a problem search to a specific section of code before single stepping all instructions.
[AMD Public Use]
