Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC)
629
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
•
Destination address of the local APIC.
•
VECTOR[7:0] indicating interrupt priority of up to 256 interrupt vectors. This information is
captured in the IRR register for Fixed and Lowest Priority interrupt message types. 
•
Trigger Mode indicating edge triggered or level-sensitive (which requires an EOI response to the
source).
•
Message Type[3:0] indicating the type of interrupt to be presented to the local APIC. For Fixed and
Lowest Priority message types, the interrupt is processed through the target local APIC. For all
other message types, the interrupt is sent directly to the destination CPU core. There is a 5-line
interrupt interface to the CPU core for INTR, SMI, NMI, INIT and STARTUP interrupts. For
locally-generated interrupts, control is provided by local vector tables or LVTs. Separate LVTs are
provided for each interrupt source, allowing for a unique entry point for each source. The LVT
contains the VECTOR[7:0], trigger mode and message type as well as other fields associated with
the specific interrupt. The message type may be Fixed, SMI, NMI, or External interrupt. A Mask
bit is also provided to mask the interrupt.
16.3
Local APIC
16.3.1  Local APIC Enable
The local APIC is controlled by the APIC enable bit (AE) in the APIC Base Address Register 
(MSR 0000_001Bh). See Figure 16-2 on page 630.
When AE is set to 1, the local APIC is enabled and all interrupt types are accepted. When AE is cleared 
to 0, the local APIC is disabled, including all local vector table interrupts. 
Software can disable the local APIC, using the APIC_SW_EN bit in the Spurious Interrupt Vector 
Register (APIC_F0). When this bit is cleared to zero, the local APIC is temporarily disabled:
•
SMI, NMI, INIT, Startup, and Remote Read interrupts may be accepted.
•
Pending interrupts in the ISR and IRR are held.
•
Further fixed, lowest-priority, and ExtInt interrupts are not accepted.
•
All LVT entry mask bits are set and cannot be cleared.
[AMD Public Use]
