Secure Virtual Machine
499
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
15.2.2  Guest Mode
This new processor mode is entered through the VMRUN instruction. When in guest mode, the 
behavior of some x86 instructions changes to facilitate virtualization.
The CPUID function numbers 4000_0000h–4000_00FFh have been reserved for software use. 
Hypervisors can use these function numbers to provide an interface to pass information from the 
hypervisor to the guest. This is similar to extracting information about a physical CPU by using 
CPUID. Hypervisors use the CPUID Fn 400000[FF:00] bit to denote a virtual platform.
Feature bit CPUID Fn0000_0001_ECX[31] has been reserved for use by hypervisors to indicate the 
presence of a hypervisor. Hypervisors set this bit to 1 and physical CPUs set this bit to zero. This bit 
can be probed by the guest software to detect whether they are running inside a virtual machine.
15.2.3  External Access Protection
Guests may be granted direct access to selected I/O devices. Hardware support is designed to prevent 
devices owned by one guest from accessing memory owned by another guest (or the VMM).
15.2.4  Interrupt Support
To facilitate efficient virtualization of interrupts, the following support is provided under control of 
VMCB flags:
Intercepting physical interrupt delivery.  The VMM can request that physical interrupts cause a 
running guest to exit, allowing the VMM to process the interrupt.
Virtual interrupts.  The VMM can inject virtual interrupts into the guest. Under control of the VMM, 
a virtual copy of the EFLAGS.IF interrupt mask bit, and a virtual copy of the APIC's task priority 
register are used transparently by the guest instead of the physical resources.
Sharing a physical APIC.  SVM allows multiple guests to share a physical APIC with isolation of 
each guest's manipulation of APIC state from the other guests' views of their own APIC state, so that 
no guest can interfere with delivery of interrupts to another guest.
Direct interrupt delivery.  On models that support it, the Advanced Virtual Interrupt Controller 
(AVIC) extension virtualizes the APIC's interrupt delivery functions. This provides for delivery of 
device or inter-processor interrupts directly to a target vCPU or vCPUs, which avoids the overhead of 
having the VMM determine interrupt routing and speeds up interrupt delivery. (see Section 15.29).
15.2.5  Restartable Instructions
SVM is designed to safely restart, with the exception of task switches, any intercepted instruction 
(either atomic or idempotent) after the intercept.
[AMD Public Use]
