Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC)
651
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
•
Task Priority Sub-class (TPS)—Bits 3:0. The TPS field indicates the current sub-priority to be used
when arbitrating lowest-priority messages. This field is written with zero when TPR is written
using the architectural CR8 register.
•
Task Priority (TP)—Bits 7:4. The TP field indicates the current priority to be used when a core is
deciding when to handle interrupts. A value of zero allows all interrupts; a value of Fh disables all
interrupts. TP is also used to arbitrate between CPU cores to determine which core accepts a
lowest-priority interrupt request. This field can also be written using the architectural CR8 register.
The PPR is set by the CPU core and represents the current priority level at which the CPU core is 
executing. The PPR determines whether a pending interrupt in the local APIC can be selected for 
interrupt handling in the CPU core. The value set by hardware is either the interrupt priority level of 
the highest priority ISR bit set or the value in the TPR, whichever is higher. The PPR is equal to the 
TPR when the CPU core is not servicing a higher priority interrupt. See Figure 16-27 on page 651.
Figure 16-27.
Processor Priority Register (APIC Offset A0h)
The fields within the Processor Priority register are as follows:
•
Processor Priority Sub-class (PPS)—Bits 3:0. The PPS field is set to the Task Priority sub-class
field of the Task Priority Register (TPR) if the PP field is equal to the Task Priority field of the
TPR.
•
Processor Priority (PP)—Bits 7:4. The PP field indicates the CPU core’s current priority for
servicing a task or interrupt, and is used to determine if any pending interrupts should be serviced.
It is the higher value of either the interrupt priority level of the highest priority ISR bit set or the
value in the TPR.
Pending interrupts must have a higher priority level than the value in the PPR to be selected by the 
local APIC for interrupt handling in the core; otherwise, they remain pending in the IRR until the PPR 
is lowered below the pending interrupt priority level. No pending interrupts are selected by the local 
APIC when the TPR=15. 
The local APIC selects the highest priority pending interrupt (highest priority IRR) when the CPU core 
is ready, and sends the interrupt (with the IRR vector) to the CPU core. The local APIC resets the 
highest priority IRR bit and sets the associated ISR bit.
31
8
7
4
3
0
Reserved
PP
PPS
Bits
Mnemonic
Description
Access type
31:8
Reserved
MBZ
7:4
PP
Processor Priority
RO
3:0
PPS
Processor Priority Sub-class
RO
[AMD Public Use]
