Exceptions and Interrupts
255
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Program Restart.  #SS is a fault-type exception. In most cases, the saved instruction pointer points to 
the instruction that caused the #SS. See Section “Exceptions During a Task Switch” on page 262 for a 
description of the consequences when this exception occurs during a task switch.
8.2.14  #GP—General-Protection Exception (Vector 13)
Table 8-6 describes the general situations that can cause a #GP exception. The table is not an 
exhaustive, detailed list of #GP conditions, but rather a guide to the situations that can cause a #GP. If 
an invalid use of an AMD64 architectural feature results in a #GP, the specific cause of the exception is 
described in detail in the section describing the architectural feature.
#GP cannot be disabled.
Error Code Returned.  As shown in Table 8-6, a selector index is reported as the error code if the 
#GP is due to a segment-descriptor access. In all other cases, an error code of 0 is returned.
Program Restart.  #GP is a fault-type exception. In most cases, the saved instruction pointer points to 
the instruction that caused the #GP. See Section “Exceptions During a Task Switch” on page 262 for a 
description of the consequences when this exception occurs during a task switch.
Table 8-5.
Stack Exception Error Codes
Stack Exception Cause
Error Code
Stack-segment descriptor present bit is clear
SS Selector Index
Stack-limit violation
0
Stack reference using a non-canonical address
0
Table 8-6.
General-Protection Exception Conditions
Error Condition
Error Code
Any segment privilege-check violation, while loading a segment register.
Selector Index
Any segment type-check violation, while loading a segment register.
Loading a null selector into the CS, SS, or TR register.
Accessing a gate-descriptor containing a null segment selector.
Referencing an LDT descriptor or TSS descriptor located in the LDT.
Attempting a control transfer to a busy TSS (except IRET).
In 64-bit mode, loading a non-canonical base address into the GDTR or IDTR.
In long mode, accessing a system or call-gate descriptor whose extended type field is not 0.
In long mode, accessing a system descriptor containing a non-canonical base address.
In long mode, accessing a gate descriptor containing a non-canonical offset.
In long mode, accessing a gate descriptor that does not point to a 64-bit code segment.
In long mode, accessing a 16-bit gate descriptor.
In long mode, attempting a control transfer to a TSS or task gate.
[AMD Public Use]
