526
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
The bus lock threshold #VMEXIT may occur due to a table walk A/D bit update if a page table 
memory type is not WB. In this case, the bus lock threshold #VMEXIT is still reported as a 
VMEXIT_BUSLOCK, not a Nested Page Fault.
15.15
VMCB State Caching
VMCB state caching allows the processor to cache certain guest register values in hardware between a 
#VMEXIT and subsequent VMRUN instructions and use the cached values to improve context-switch 
performance. Depending on the particular processor implementation, VMRUN loads each guest 
register value either from the VMCB or from the VMCB state cache, as specified by the value of the 
VMCB Clean field in the VMCB. Support for VMCB state caching is indicated by CPUID 
Fn8000_000A_EDX[VmcbClean] = 1.
The SVM architecture uses the physical address of the VMCB as a unique identifier for the guest 
virtual CPU for the purposes of deciding whether the cached copy belongs to the guest. For the 
purposes of VMCB state caching, the ASID is not a unique identifier for a guest virtual CPU.
15.15.1  VMCB Clean Bits
The VMCB Clean field (VMCB offset 0C0h, bits 31:0) controls which guest register values are loaded 
from the VMCB state cache on VMRUN. Each set bit in the VMCB Clean field allows the processor to 
load one guest register or group of registers from the hardware cache; each clear bit requires that the 
processor load the guest register from the VMCB. The clean bits are a hint, since any given processor 
implementation may ignore bits that are set to 1 on any given VMRUN, unconditionally loading the 
associated register value(s) from the VMCB. Clean bits that are set to zero are always honored.
This field is backward-compatible to CPUs that do not support VMCB state caching; older CPUs 
neither cache VMCB state nor read the VMCB Clean field. 
Older hypervisors that are not aware of VMCB state caching and respect the SBZ property of 
undefined VMCB fields will not enable VMCB state caching.
15.15.2  Guidelines for Clearing VMCB Clean Bits
The hypervisor must clear specific bits in the VMCB Clean field every time it explicitly modifies the 
associated guest state in the VMCB. The guest's execution can cause cached state to be updated, but 
the hypervisor is not responsible for setting VMCB Clean bits corresponding to any state changes 
caused by guest execution.
The hypervisor must clear the entire VMCB field to 0 for a guest, under the following circumstances: 
•
This is the first time a particular guest is run. 
•
The hypervisor executes the guest on a different CPU core than one used the last time that guest
was executed.
•
The hypervisor has moved the guest's VMCB to a different physical page since the last time that
guest was executed. 
[AMD Public Use]
