492
Processor Initialization and Long Mode Activation
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
software should use the LGDT, LLDT, LIDT, and LTR instructions to load the system descriptor-table 
registers with references to the 64-bit versions of the descriptor tables. See “Descriptor Tables” on 
page 82 for details on descriptor tables in long mode. 
Long mode requires 64-bit interrupt-gate descriptors to be stored in the interrupt-descriptor table 
(IDT). Software must not allow exceptions or interrupts to occur between the time long mode is 
activated and the subsequent update of the interrupt-descriptor-table register (IDTR) that establishes a 
reference to the 64-bit IDT. This is because the IDTR continues to reference a 32-bit IDT immediately 
after long mode is activated. If an interrupt or exception occurred before updating the IDTR, a legacy 
32-bit interrupt gate would be referenced and interpreted as a 64-bit interrupt gate, with unpredictable 
results. 
External interrupts can be disabled using the CLI instruction. Non-maskable interrupts (NMI) and 
system-management interrupts (SMI) must be disabled using external hardware. See “Long-Mode 
Interrupt Control Transfers” on page 281 for more information on long mode interrupts.
14.6.4  Relocating Page-Translation Tables
The long-mode page-translation tables must be located in the first 4 Gbytes of physical-address space 
before activating long mode. This is necessary because the MOV CR3 instruction used to initialize the 
page-map level-4 base address must be executed in legacy mode before activating long mode. Because 
the MOV CR3 is executed in legacy mode, only the low 32 bits of the register are written, which limits 
the location of the page-map level-4 translation table to the low 4 Gbytes of memory. Software can 
relocate the page tables anywhere in physical memory, and re-initialize the CR3 register, after long 
mode is activated.
14.7
Leaving Long Mode
To return from long mode to legacy protected mode with paging enabled, software must deactivate and 
disable long mode using the following sequence:
1. Switch to compatibility mode and place the processor at the highest privilege level (CPL=0).
2. Deactivate long mode by clearing CR0.PG to 0. This causes the processor to clear the LMA bit to
0. The MOV CR0 instruction used to disable paging must be located in an identity-mapped page.
Once paging is disabled, the processor behaves as a standard 32-bit x86 processor.
3. Load CR3 with the physical base-address of the legacy page tables.
4. Disable long mode by clearing EFER.LME to 0.
5. Enable legacy page-translation by setting CR0.PG to 1. The instruction following the MOV CR0
that enables paging must be a branch, and both the MOV CR0 and the following branch
instruction must be located in an identity-mapped page.
[AMD Public Use]
