Secure Virtual Machine
561
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
7. Update the ESP register to point to the first byte beyond the end of the SLB (SLB base + 65536),
so that the first item pushed onto the stack by the SL will be at the top of the SLB.
8. Add the unsigned 16-bit entry point offset value from the SLB to the SLB base address to form
the SL entry point address, and jump to it.
The validation of the SL image by the TPM is a one-way transaction as far as SKINIT is concerned. It 
does not depend on any response from the TPM after transferring the SL image before jumping to the 
SL entry point, and initiates execution of the Secure Loader unconditionally. Because of the processor 
initialization performed, SKINIT does not honor instruction or data breakpoint traps, or trace traps due 
to EFLAGS.TF.
Pending interrupts.  Device interrupts that may be pending prior to SKINIT execution due to 
EFLAGS.IF being clear, or that assert during the execution of SKINIT, will be held pending until 
software subsequently sets GIF to 1. Similarly, SMI, INIT and NMI interrupts that assert after the start 
of SKINIT execution will also be held pending until GIF is set to 1.
Debug Considerations.  SKINIT automatically disables various implementation-specific hardware 
debug features. A debug version of the SL can reenable those features by clearing the VM_CR.DPD 
flag immediately upon entry.
15.27.7  SL Abort
If the SL determines that it cannot properly initialize a valid SK, it must cause GIF to be set to 1 and 
clear the VM_CR MSR to re-enable normal processor operation. 
15.27.8  Secure Multiprocessor Initialization
The following standard APIC features are used for secure MP initialization:
•
The concept of a single Bootstrap Processor (BSP) and multiple Application Processors (APs).
•
The INIT interprocessor interrupt (IPI), which puts the target processors into a halted state (INIT
state) which is responsive only to a subsequent Startup IPI. 
•
The Startup IPI causes target processors to begin execution at a location in memory that is
specified by the Boot Processor and conveyed along with the Startup IPI. The operation of the
processor in response to a Startup IPI is slightly modified to support secure initialization, as
described below.
A Startup IPI normally causes an AP to start execution at a location provided by the IPI. To support 
secure MP startup, each AP responds to a startup IPI by additionally clearing its GIF and setting the 
DPD, R_INIT and DIS_A20M flags in the VM_CR register if, and only if, the BSP has indicated that 
it has executed an SKINIT. All other aspects of Startup IPI behavior remain unchanged.
Software Requirements for Secure MP initialization.  The driver that starts the SL must execute on 
the BSP. Prior to executing the SKINIT instruction, the driver must save any processor-specific system 
register contents to memory for restoration after reinitialization of the APs. The driver should also put 
all APs in an idle state. The driver must first confirmed that all APs are idle and then it must issue an 
[AMD Public Use]
