Secure Virtual Machine
605
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
When the hypervisor assigns a page to a guest, it must also set the Guest_Physical_Address and 
Page_Size to match the nested page table mapping for the guest. If not, access to the page by the guest 
will result in a fault. See Section 15.36.10 for details on the RMP access checks.
The hypervisor may transition any page that has Immutable set to 0 into a hypervisor-owned page by 
using RMPUPDATE to set Assigned to 0 and ASID to 0. To transition a page that has Immutable set to 
1, the hypervisor must request the AMD-SP to transition the page.
The RMP initialization requirement to write zeros to the RMP (see Section 15.36.4) results in all pages 
in the system initially belonging to the hypervisor. Any memory pages which are not covered by the 
RMP are considered permanent hypervisor pages. For example, if the RMP is configured to only cover 
the first 4GB of memory then all memory above 4GB is considered hypervisor memory for the 
purpose of RMP access checks.
15.36.6  Page Validation 
Each page assigned to a VM is either validated or unvalidated, as indicated by the Validated flag in the 
page’s RMP entry. Memory accesses by the VM to private pages that are unvalidated generate a #VC. 
All pages are initially assigned as unvalidated.
The VM may use the PVALIDATE instruction to either set or clear the Validated flag of a page. It is 
expected that VMs would use PVALIDATE to set the Validated flag during VM startup to gain access 
to the memory the hypervisor has assigned. The VM may later use PVALIDATE to clear the Validated 
flag if its memory space is being reduced, such as after a memory hot-plug event.
Page validation allows a VM to detect an unexpected remapping of its pages by the hypervisor. Before 
accessing a page, the VM must validate the page. Once validated, any use of RMPUPDATE by the 
hypervisor to unassign, reassign, or remap the page will cause the page to become unvalidated. The 
VM can then detect tampering with the page mapping via the #VC that occurs from accessing 
unvalidated pages.
PVALIDATE takes a page size as an input parameter indicating that either a 4KB or 2MB page should 
be validated. If the VM attempts to use PVALIDATE on a 4KB page that is mapped to a 2MB or 1GB 
page in the nested page table, PVALIDATE generates an #VMEXIT(NPF). In this case, the hypervisor 
can smash the larger page into 4KB pages using the PSMASH instruction as described in 
Section 15.36.11. If the VM attempts to use PVALIDATE on a 2MB guest page that is mapped to 4KB 
nested pages, PVALIDATE returns an error indication to the VM. The VM can instead attempt to 
execute PVALIDATE for each of the 4KB pages individually.
Table 15-35.
RMP Page Assignment Settings
Owner
Assigned
ASID
Immutable
Hypervisor
0
0
-
Guest
1 
ASID of the guest
-
AMD-SP 
1 
0
1
[AMD Public Use]
