Secure Virtual Machine
601
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
15.35.10  Control Register Write Traps
The use of CR[0-15]_WRITE intercepts are discouraged for guests that are run with SEV-ES. These 
intercepts occur prior to the control register being modified, and the hypervisor is not able to modify 
the control register itself since the register is located in the encrypted state image. Hypervisors are 
encouraged to use the new CR[0-15]_WRITE_TRAP and EFER_WRITE_TRAP intercept bits 
instead which cause an AE after a control register has been modified. These intercepts enable the 
hypervisor to track the guest mode and verify if desired features are being enabled. When these traps 
are taken, the new value of the control register is saved in EXITINFO1. CR write traps are only 
supported for SEV-ES guests.
Note that writes by SEV-ES guests to EFER.SVME are always ignored by hardware.
15.35.11  Interaction with SMI and #MC 
If an SMI occurs while an SEV-ES guest is executing, the platform SMI handler is not immediately 
executed. Instead, the SMI will remain pending and a #VMEXIT(SMI) is generated. The SMI will 
then be taken in hypervisor context after STGI is executed. Note that this behavior occurs regardless of 
the value of the SMI intercept bit in the VMCB.
In some systems, machine check errors are first delivered as an SMI. If this occurs while an SEV-ES 
guest is executing, #VMEXIT(SMI) will be generated and EXITINFO1[MCREDIR] will be set to 1 
(“SMI Intercept” on page 522). As described above, the SMI will be held pending until STGI is 
executed. After the platform SMI handler executes following STGI, the hypervisor should check the 
MCREDIR bit to determine if the #VMEXIT(SMI) was due to a machine check error in the guest and 
handle it appropriately.
15.36
Secure Nested Paging (SEV-SNP) 
The SEV-SNP features enable additional protection for encrypted VMs designed to achieve stronger 
isolation from the hypervisor. SEV-SNP is used with the SEV and SEV-ES features described in 
Section 15.34 and Section 15.35 respectively and requires the enablement and use of these features.
Primarily, SEV-SNP provides integrity protection of VM memory to help prevent hypervisor-based 
attacks that rely on guest data corruption, aliasing, replay, and various other attack vectors. To achieve 
this, a new system-wide data structure called the Reverse Map Table (RMP) is used to perform 
additional security checks on memory access as described in Section 15.36.3.
In addition to memory protection, SEV-SNP also includes several security features including a new 
Virtual Machine Privilege Level (VMPL) architecture, interrupt injection restrictions, and side-
channel protection. These features are designed to enable additional use models and enhanced security 
protections.
While this chapter describes the CPU hardware behavior of SEV-SNP, the technology also requires the 
use of the AMD Secure Processor (AMD-SP) SEV-SNP Application Binary Interface (ABI) to 
[AMD Public Use]
