412
Software Debug and Performance Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
An architectural extension augments the number of performance and event-select registers by adding 
two more processor counter / event-select pairs. Further extensions add four counter / event-select 
pairs dedicated to counting Northbridge (NB) events and four counter / event-select pairs dedicated to 
counting L2 cache (L2I) events. 
Core logic includes instruction execution pipelines, execution units, and caches closest to the 
execution hardware. The NB includes logic that routes data traffic between caches, external I/O 
devices, and a system memory controller which reads and writes system memory (usually 
implemented as external DRAM). The L2 cache is a cache that is further away from the processor core 
than the L1 cache or caches. This cache is normally larger than the L1 cache(s) and requires more 
processor cycles to access. An L2 cache may be shared between physical processor cores.
All implementations support the base set of four performance counter / event-select pairs. Support for 
the extended performance monitoring registers and the performance-related events selectable via the 
*PerfEvtSel registers vary by implementation and are described in the BIOS and Kernel Developer’s 
Guide (BKDG) or Processor Programming Reference Manual (PPR)   for that processor. 
Core performance counters are used to count processor core events, such as data-cache misses, or the 
duration of events, such as the number of clocks it takes to return data from memory after a cache miss. 
During event counting, hardware increments a counter each time it detects an occurrence of a specified 
event. During duration measurement, hardware counts the number of processor clock cycles required 
to complete a specific hardware function. 
NB performance counters are used to count events that occur within the Northbridge. The L2I 
performance counters are used to count events associated with accessing the L2 cache.
Performance counters and event-select registers are implemented as machine-specific registers 
(MSRs). The base set of four PerfCtr and PerfEvtSel registers are accessed via a legacy set of MSRs 
and the extended set of six core PerfCtr / PerfEvtSel registers are accessed via a different set. Extended 
core PerfCtr / PerfEvtSel registers 0–3 alias the legacy set. 
Support for the extended set of core PerfCtr registers and associated PerfEvtSel registers, as well as the 
sets of Northbridge and L2 cache counter / event-select pairs are indicated by CPUID feature bits. See 
“Detecting Hardware Support for Performance Counters” on page 421. The MSR address assignments 
for the legacy and extended performance / event-select pairs are listed in Appendix A, Section A.6, 
“Performance-Monitoring MSRs” on page 731.
The length, in bits, of the performance counters is implementation-dependent, but the maximum 
length supported is 64 bits. Figure 13-10 shows the format of the performance counter registers.
Figure 13-10.
Performance Counter Format
63
0
event or duration count
[AMD Public Use]
