440
Software Debug and Performance Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
-
An implementation can choose to gather event information on one or many events at any one 
time. If multiple event counters become negative, an advanced LWP implementation might 
gather one event record per event and write them sequentially. A basic LWP implementation 
may choose one of the eligible events. Other events continue counting but wait until the first 
event record is written. LWP picks the next eligible instructions for the waiting events. This 
situation should be extremely uncommon if software chooses large event interval values.
-
LWP may discard an event occurrence. For instance, if the LWPCB or the event ring buffer 
needs to be paged in from disk, LWP might choose not to preserve the pending event data. If an 
event is discarded, LWP gathers an event record for the next instruction to cause the event.
-
Similarly, if LWP needs to replay an instruction to gather a complete event record, the replay 
may abort instead of retiring. The event counter continues counting below zero and LWP 
gathers an event record for the next instruction to cause the event.
3. Store—When a complete event record is gathered, LWP stores it into the event ring buffer in the 
process’ address space and advances the ring buffer head pointer.
-
LWP checks to see if the ring buffer is full, i.e., if advancing the ring buffer head pointer would 
make it equal to the tail pointer. If the buffer is full, LWP increments the 64-bit counter 
LWPCB.MissedEvents. If LWP is running in synchronized mode, it does not advance the head 
pointer. If LWP is running in continuous mode, it always advances the head pointer and 
LWPCB.MissedEvents counts the number of times that the buffer wrapped.
-
If more than one event record reaches the Store stage simultaneously, only one need be stored. 
Though LWP might store all such event records, it may delay storing some event records or it 
may discard the information and proceed to choose the next eligible instruction for the 
discarded event type(s). This behavior is implementation dependent.
-
The store need not complete synchronously with the instruction retiring. In other words, if 
LWP buffers the event record contents, the Store stage (and subsequent stages) may complete 
some number of cycles after the tagged instruction retires. The data about the event and the 
instruction are precise, but the Report and Reset steps (below) may complete later.
4. Report—If LWP threshold interrupts are enabled and the space used in the event ring buffer 
exceeds a user-defined threshold, LWP initiates an interrupt. The OS can use this to signal the 
process to empty the ring buffer. Note that the interrupt may occur significantly later than the 
event that caused the threshold to be reached.
5. Reset—For each event that was stored, the counter is reset to its programmed interval. If 
requested by the application, LWP applies randomization to the low order bits of the interval. 
Counting for that event continues. Reset happens if the ring buffer head pointer was advanced or 
if the missed event counter was incremented. If the event counter went below -1, indicating that 
additional events occurred between the selected event and the time it was reported, that overrun 
value reduces the reset value so as to preserve the statistical distribution of events.
For all events except the LWPVAL instruction, the hardware may impose a minimum on the reset 
value of an event counter. This prevents the system from spending too much time storing samples 
rather than making forward progress on the application. Any minimum imposed by the hardware 
can be detected by examining the EventIntervaln fields in the LWPCB after enabling LWP.
[AMD Public Use]
