Secure Virtual Machine
597
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
In the case of exits due to specific instructions, the CPU will automatically advance the guest RIP in 
response to the AE so that execution will resume at the next instruction on a subsequent VMRUN.
In the case of nested page faults, these are treated as AEs only if there was no reserved bit error. This is 
intended to be used to help distinguish nested page faults due to demand misses (hypervisor needs to 
allocate a page) vs MMIO emulation (hypervisor needs to emulate a device). Consequently, the 
hypervisor should set a reserved page table bit, such as a reserved address bit, on all MMIO pages that 
it intends to emulate. (This can include address bits that may become reserved when SEV is enabled; 
see Section 15.34.1.) This will ensure that MMIO page faults become NAE events, which is critical so 
the guest #VC handler can be invoked to assist in the MMIO emulation. Nested page faults that are AE 
events do not invoke any guest handler and the hypervisor is intended to allocate memory as needed 
and then resume the guest.
Note that when a guest is running with SEV-ES enabled, instruction bytes (VMCB offset D0h) are 
never saved to the VMCB on a nested page fault.
15.35.5  #VC Exception
The VMM Communication Exception (#VC) is always generated by hardware when an SEV-ES 
enabled guest is running and an NAE event occurs. The #VC exception is a precise, contributory, fault-
type exception utilizing exception vector 29. This exception cannot be masked. The error code of the 
#VC exception is equal to the #VMEXIT code (see Appendix C) of the event that caused the NAE.
In response to a #VC exception, a typical flow would involve the guest handler inspecting the error 
code to determine the cause of the exception and deciding what register state must be copied to the 
GHCB for the event to be handled. The handler should then execute the VMGEXIT instruction to 
create an AE and invoke the hypervisor. After a later VMRUN, guest execution will resume after the 
VMGEXIT instruction where the handler can view the results from the hypervisor and copy state from 
the GHCB back to its internal state as needed. This flow is shown in Figure 15-31.
Note that it is inadvisable for the hypervisor to set the VMCB intercept bit for the #VC exception as 
this would prevent proper handling of NAEs by the guest. Similarly, the hypervisor should avoid 
setting intercept bits for events that would occur in the #VC handler (such as IRET).
–2
VMEXIT_BUSY
BUSY bit was set in VMSA
–
-3
VMEXIT_IDLE_REQUIRED
The sibling thread is not idle
–
-4
VMEXIT_INVALID_PMC
Invalid PMC state
–
Table 15-33.
AE Exitcodes (continued)
Code
Name
Notes
HW Advances RIP
[AMD Public Use]
