System Resources
51
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Supervisor Mode Access Prevention (SMAP).  Bit 21. Setting this bit enables the supervisor mode 
access prevention feature, if supported. This feature prevents certain data accesses to pages accessible 
by user-mode software when the processor is in supervisor mode. See Section 5.6.6 “Supervisor-Mode 
Access Prevention(CR4.SMAP) Bit,” on page 164 for more information. 
Protection Key Enable (PKE).  Bit 22. Enable support for memory Protection Keys. Also enables 
support for the RDPKRU and WRPKRU instructions. A MOV to CR4 that changes CR4.PKE from 0 
to 1 causes all cached entries in the TLB for the logical processor to be invalidated. (See Section 5.6.7 
“Memory Protection Keys (MPK) Bit,” on page 164 for more information on memory protection 
keys.)
Control-flow Enforcement Technology (CET).  Bit 23. Setting this bit enables the shadow stack 
feature. This feature ensures that return addresses read from the stack by RET and IRET instructions 
originated from a CALL instruction or similar control transfer. 
See Section 18 “Shadow Stacks,” on page 678 for more information. Before setting this bit, CR0.WP 
must be set to 1, otherwise a #GP fault is generated.
CR1 and CR5–CR7 Registers.  Control registers CR1, CR5–CR7, and CR9–CR15 are reserved. 
Attempts by software to use these registers result in an undefined-opcode exception (#UD).
3.1.4  Additional Control Registers in 64-Bit-Mode
In 64-bit mode, additional encodings are available to address up to eight additional control registers. 
The REX.R bit, in a REX prefix, is used to modify the ModRM reg field when that field encodes a 
control register, as shown in “REX Prefixes” in Volume 3. These additional encodings enable the 
processor to address CR8–CR15. 
One additional control register, CR8, is defined in 64-bit mode for all hardware implementations, as 
described in “CR8 (Task Priority Register, TPR),” below. Access to the CR9–CR15 registers is 
implementation-dependent. Any attempt to access an unimplemented register results in an invalid-
opcode exception (#UD).
3.1.5  CR8 (Task Priority Register, TPR)
The AMD64 architecture introduces a new control register, CR8, defined as the task priority register 
(TPR). The register is accessible in 64-bit mode using the REX prefix. See Section 8.5.2 “External 
Interrupt Priorities,” on page 267 for a description of the TPR and how system software can use the 
TPR for controlling external interrupts.
3.1.6  RFLAGS Register
The RFLAGS register contains two different types of information:
•
Control bits provide system-software controls and directional information for string operations.
Some of these bits can have privilege-level restrictions.
[AMD Public Use]
