290
Exceptions and Interrupts
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
To summarize, when the VME extensions are enabled (CR4.VME=1), the VIF and VIP bits are set and 
cleared as follows: 
•
VIF Bit—This bit is set and cleared by the processor in virtual-8086 mode in response to an
attempt by a virtual-8086 program to set and clear the EFLAGS.IF bit. VIF is used by system
software to determine whether a maskable external interrupt should be passed on to the virtual-
8086 program, emulated by system software, or held pending. VIF is also cleared during software
interrupts through interrupt gates, with the original VIF value preserved in the EFLAGS image on
the stack. 
•
VIP Bit—System software sets and clears this bit in the EFLAGS image saved on the stack after an
interrupt. It can be set when an interrupt occurs for a virtual-8086 program that has a clear VIF bit.
The processor examines the VIP bit when an attempt is made by the virtual-8086 program to set
the IF bit. If VIP is set when the program attempts to set IF, a general-protection exception (#GP)
occurs before execution of the IF-setting instruction. System software must clear VIP to avoid
repeated #GP exceptions when returning to the interrupted instruction.
The VIF and VIP bits can be used by system software to minimize the overhead associated with 
managing maskable external interrupts because virtual copies of the IF flag do not have to be 
maintained by system software. Instead, VIF and VIP are maintained during context switches along 
with the remaining EFLAGS bits.
Table 8-12 on page 292 shows how the behavior of instructions that modify the IF bit are affected by 
the VME extensions.
Interrupt Redirection of Software Interrupts.  In virtual-8086 mode, software interrupts (INTn 
instructions) are trapped using a #GP exception handler if the IOPL is less than 3 (the CPL for virtual-
8086 mode). This allows system software to interrupt and emulate 8086-interrupt handlers. System 
software can set the IOPL to 3, in which case the INTn instruction is vectored through a gate descriptor 
in the protected-mode IDT. System software can use the gate to control access to the virtual-8086 
mode interrupt vector table (IVT), or to redirect the interrupt to a protected-mode interrupt handler.
When VME extensions are enabled, for INTn instructions to execute normally, vectoring directly to a 
virtual-8086 interrupt handler through the virtual-8086 IVT (located at address 0 in the virtual-address 
space of the task). For security or performance reasons, however, it can be necessary to intercept INTn 
instructions on a vector-specific basis to allow servicing by protected-mode interrupt handlers. This is 
performed by using the interrupt-redirection bitmap (IRB), located in the TSS and enabled when 
CR4.VME=1. The IRB is available only in virtual-8086 mode.
Figure 12-6 on page 373 shows the format of the TSS, with the interrupt redirection bitmap located 
near the top. The IRB contains 256 bits, one for each possible software-interrupt vector. The most-
significant bit of the IRB controls interrupt vector 255, and is located immediately before the IOPB 
base. The least-significant bit of the IRB controls interrupt vector 0. 
The bits in the IRB function as follows:
[AMD Public Use]
