Secure Virtual Machine
535
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
INTERRUPT_SHADOW field indicates whether the guest is currently in an interrupt shadow. This 
information is saved on #VMEXIT and loaded on VMRUN.
15.21.6  Virtual Interrupt Intercept
When virtualizing interrupt handling, a VMM typically needs only gain control when new interrupts 
for a guest arrive or are generated, and when the guest issues an EOI (end-of-interrupt). In some 
circumstances, it may also be necessary for the VMM to gain control at the moment interrupts become 
enabled in the guest (i.e., just before the guest takes a virtual interrupt). The VMM can do so by 
enabling the VINTR intercept.
15.21.7  Interrupt Masking in Local APIC
When guests have direct access to devices, interrupts arriving at the local APIC can usually be 
dismissed only by the guest that owns the device causing the interrupt. To prevent one guest from 
blocking other guests’ interrupts (by never processing their own), the VMM can mask pending 
interrupts in the local APIC, so they do not participate in the prioritization of other interrupts. 
SVM introduces the following APIC features:
•
A 256-bit IER (interrupt enable) register is added to the local APIC. This register resets to all ones
(enabling all 256 vectors). Software can read and write the IER by means of the memory-mapped
APIC page.
•
Only vectors that are enabled in the IER participate in the APIC computation of the highest-
priority pending interrupt.
•
The VMM can issue specific end-of-interrupt (EOI) commands to the local APIC, allowing the
VMM to clear pending interrupts in any order, rather than always targeting the interrupt with
highest-priority.
15.21.8  INIT Support
The INIT signal interrupts the processor at the next instruction boundary and causes an unconditional 
control transfer. INIT reinitializes the control registers, segment registers and GP registers in a manner 
similar to RESET, but does not alter the contents of most MSRs, caches or numeric coprocessor (x87 
or SSE) state, and then transfers control to the same instruction address as RESET (physical address 
FFFFFFF0h). Unlike RESET, INIT is not expected to be visible to the memory controller, and hence 
will not trigger automatic clearing of trusted memory pages by memory controller hardware. 
To maintain the security of such pages, the VMM can request that INITs be redirected and turned into 
#SX exceptions by setting the R_INIT bit in the VM_CR MSR (see Section 15.30.1). This allows the 
VMM to gain control when an INIT is requested and scrub any sensitive context. The VMM may then 
disable the redirection of INIT and cause the platform to reassert INIT (see the relevant BIOS and 
Kernel Developer’s Guide or Processor Programming Reference Manual for details), at which point 
the processor will respond in the normal manner. The actions initiated by the INIT pin may also be 
initiated by an incoming APIC INIT interrupt; the mechanisms described here apply in either case. 
Table 15-12 summarizes the handling of INITs.
[AMD Public Use]
