300
Machine Check Architecture
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
If the uncorrected error is in a cache and the cache line containing the uncorrected (known bad) 
data is in the shared state, software can invalidate the line so that it will be reloaded from memory 
or another cache that has the line in the owned state.
Many more error scenarios are recoverable depending on the effectiveness of hardware error 
containment, the logging capabilities of the system, and the sophistication of the recovery software 
that acts on the information conveyed through the MCA reporting structure.
If recovery software is unable to restore a valid system architectural state at some level of software 
abstraction (process, guest operating system, virtual machine, or virtual machine monitor), the 
uncorrected error is considered system fatal. In this situation, system software must halt the execution 
of instructions. A system reset is required to restore the system to a known-good architectural state.
9.2
Determining Machine-Check Architecture Support
Support for the machine-check architecture is implementation-dependent. System software executes 
the CPUID instruction to determine whether a processor implements the machine-check exception 
(#MC) and the global MCA MSRs. The CPUID Fn0000_0001_EDX[MCE] feature bit indicates 
support for the machine-check exception and the CPUID Fn0000_0001_EDX[MCA] feature bit 
indicates support for the base set of global machine-check MSRs.
Once system software determines that the base set of MCA MSRs is available, it determines the 
implemented number of machine-check reporting banks by reading the machine-check capabilities 
register (MCG_CAP), which is the first of the global MCA MSRs. 
For a processor implementation to provide an architecturally compliant MCA interface, it must 
provide support for the machine-check exception, the global machine-check MSRs, the watchdog 
timer (see “CPU Watchdog Timer Register” on page 304.), and at least one bank of the machine-check 
reporting registers.
Support for the deferred reporting and software-based containment of uncorrected data errors is 
indicated by the feature bit CPUID Fn8000_0007_EBX[SUCCOR]. See “Machine-Check Recovery” 
on page 307. 
Support for recoverable MCA overflow conditions is indicated by feature bit CPUID 
Fn8000_0007_EBX[McaOverflowRecov]. See the discussion of recoverable status overflow in 
Section 9.3.2.1 “MCA Overflow” on page 306.
Implementation-specific information concerning the machine-check mechanism can be found in the 
BIOS and Kernel Developer’s Guide (BKDG) or Processor Programming Reference Manual (PPR)   
applicable to your product. For more information on using the CPUID instruction, see Section 3.3, 
“Processor Feature Identification,” on page 71.
[AMD Public Use]
