588
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
15.33.1  VMSAVE and VMLOAD Virtualization
This feature allows the VMSAVE and VMLOAD instructions to execute in guest mode without 
causing a #VMEXIT. The VMCB address in RAX is treated as a guest physical address and is 
translated to a host physical address. Any page fault in attempting that translation will result in a 
normal #VMEXIT with a nested page fault exit code. If the translation is successful, the register state 
transfer to or from the VMCB will then be performed.
Support for virtualized VMSAVE and VMLOAD is indicated by CPUID Fn8000_000A_EDX[15]=1. 
When this feature is available, it must be explicitly enabled by setting bit 1 of VMCB offset 0B8h to 1. 
This enable bit is only recognized when the hypervisor is in 64 bit mode, nested paging is enabled and 
Secure Encrypted Virtualization is disabled, otherwise attempted execution of a VMLOAD or 
VMSAVE in the guest will result in a #VMEXIT with a VMSAVE/VMLOAD exit code.
15.33.2  Virtual GIF (VGIF)
This feature allows STGI and CLGI to execute in guest mode and control virtual interrupts in guest 
mode while still allowing physical interrupts to be intercepted by the hypervisor. The presence of the 
VGIF feature is indicated by CPUID Fn8000_000A_EDX[16]=1.
In order to provide this ability, two new bits are added to the VMCB field at offset 60h:
When a VMRUN is executed and VGIF is enabled, the processor uses bit 9 as the starting value of the 
virtual GIF. It then provides masking capability for when virtual interrupts are taken. STGI executed in 
the guest sets bit 9 of VMCB offset 60h and allows a virtual interrupt to be taken. CLGI executed in the 
guest clears bit 9 of VMCB offset 60h and causes the virtual interrupt to be masked. Bit 9 in the 
VMCB is also writeable by the hypervisor, and loaded on VMRUN and is saved on #VMEXIT.
The hypervisor can still use the STGI and CLGI intercept controls in the VMCB to intercept execution 
of these in the guest regardless of VGIF enablement.
15.34
Secure Encrypted Virtualization
Secure Encrypted Virtualization (SEV) is available when the CPU is running in guest mode utilizing 
AMD-V virtualization features. SEV enables running encrypted virtual machines (VMs) in which the 
code and data of the virtual machine are secured so that the decrypted version is available only within 
the VM itself. Each virtual machine may be associated with a unique encryption key so if data is 
accessed by a different entity using a different key, the SEV encrypted VM's data will be decrypted 
with an incorrect key, leading to unintelligible data.
It is important to note that SEV mode therefore represents a departure from the standard x86 
virtualization security model, as the hypervisor is no longer able to inspect or alter all guest code or 
Offset
Bit
Description
60h
9
VGIF value (0 – Virtual interrupts are masked, 1 – Virtual Interrupts are unmasked) 
60h
25
Virtual GIF enable for this guest (0 - Disabled, 1 - Enabled) 
[AMD Public Use]
