538
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
External, asynchronous—generated externally in response to an external, physical event, e.g.,
closing a laptop lid, temperature sensor triggering, etc.
15.22.2  Response to SMI
How hardware responds to SMIs is a function of whether SMM interrupts are being intercepted and 
whether interrupts are enabled globally, as shown in Table 15-14.
 
By intercepting SMIs, the VMM can gain control before the processor enters SMM.
15.22.3  Containerizing Platform SMM
In some usage scenarios, the VMM may not trust the existing platform SMM code, or may otherwise 
want to ensure that the SMM does not operate in the context of certain guests or the hypervisor. To 
address these cases, SVM provides the ability to containerize SMM code, i.e., run it inside a guest, 
with the full protection mechanisms of the VMM in place. In other scenarios, the VMM may not want 
to exert control over SMM.
There are three solutions for the VMM to control SMM handlers:
•
The simplest solution is to not intercept SMI signals. SMIs encountered while in a guest context
are taken from within the guest context. In this case, the SMM handler is not subject to any
intercepts set up by the VMM and consequently runs outside of the virtualization controls. The
state saved in the SMM State-Save area as seen by the SMM handler reflects the state of the guest
that had been running at the time the SMI was encountered. When the SMM handler executes the
RSM instruction, the processor returns to executing in the guest context, and any modifications to
the SMM State-Save area made by the SMM handler are reflected in the guest state.
•
A hypervisor may want to emulate all SMI-based I/O interceptions for a guest and to take SMI
signals only in the hypervisor context. The hypervisor should set all IOIO intercept bits and the
SMI intercept bit for the guest to ensure that there is no possibility of encountering synchronous
(internal or external) SMI signals while running the guest. Any #VMEXIT(SMI) encountered is
then known to be due to an external, asynchronous SMI. The hypervisor may respond to the
#VMEXIT(SMI) by executing the STGI instruction, which causes the pending SMI to be taken
immediately. When an SMI due to an I/O instruction is pending, the effect of executing STGI in
the hypervisor is undefined. To handle a pending SMI due to an I/O instruction, the hypervisor
must either containerize SMM or not intercept SMI.
Table 15-14.
SMI Handling in Different Operating Modes
GIF
Intercept
SMI
Internal SMI
External SMI
0
x
Lost. 
Hold pending until GIF=1.
1
1
Exit guest,
code #VMEXIT(SMI), SMI is not pending.
#VMEXIT(SMI), SMI is still pending.
0
Taken normally.
Taken normally.
[AMD Public Use]
