Secure Virtual Machine
553
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
the guest level. Similarly, if the EFER.NXE bit is cleared for the host, all nested page table mappings 
are executable at the underlying nested level.
Some attributes are taken from the guest page tables and operating modes only. A page is considered 
global within the guest only if is marked global in the guest page tables; the nested page table entry and 
host hCR4.PGE are irrelevant. Global pages are only global within their ASID.
A page is considered user in the guest only if it is marked as user at the guest level. The page must be 
marked user in the nested page table to allow any guest access at all.
15.25.8  Combining Memory Types, MTRRs
When nested paging is disabled, the processor behaves as though there is no gPAT register. 
The host PAT MSR determines memory type attributes for the current VM, and guest writes to the PAT 
MSR that aren't intercepted by the VMM will alter the host PAT MSR. The hypervisor is responsible 
for context-switching the PAT MSR contents on world switches between VMs.
When nested paging is enabled, the processor combines guest and nested page table memory types. 
Registers that affect memory types include:
•
The PCD/PWT/PATi bits in the nested and guest page table entries.
•
The PCD/PWT bits in the nested CR3 and guest CR3 registers.
•
The guest PAT type (obtained by appropriately indexing the gPAT register).
•
The host PAT type (obtained by appropriately indexing the host’s PAT register).
•
The MTRRs (which are referenced based only on system physical address).
•
gCR0.CD and hCR0.CD.
Note that there is no hardware support for guest MTRRs; the VMM can simulate their effect by 
altering the memory types in the nested page tables. Note that the MTRRs are only applied to system 
physical addresses.
The rules for combining memory types when constructing a guest TLB entry are:
•
Nested and guest PAT types are combined according to Table 15-19, producing a “combined PAT
type.”
•
Combined PAT type is further combined with the MTRR type according to Table 15-20, where the
relevant MTRRs are determined by the system physical address.
•
Either gCR0.CD or hCR0.CD can disable caching.
Memory Consistency Issues.  Because the guest uses extra fields to determine the memory type, the 
VMM may use a different memory type to access a given piece of memory than does the guest. If one 
access is cacheable and the other is not, the VMM and guest could observe different memory images, 
which is undesirable. (MP systems are particularly sensitive to this problem when the VMM desires to 
migrate a virtual processor from one physical processor to another.)
[AMD Public Use]
