Machine Check Architecture
307
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
If the VAL bit is not set, hardware writes the appropriate logging registers based on the type of error 
(writing the MCi_STATUS register last) and then sets the VAL bit to indicate to software that the 
information currently contained in the MCi_STATUS register is valid. Software clears the VAL bit 
after reading the contents of this register (after reading and saving valid information stored in any of 
the other logging registers) to indicate to hardware that it has saved the information, making the 
registers available to log the next error.
If survivable MCA overflow is supported by the implementation (as indicated by CPUID 
Fn8000_0007_EBX[McaOverflowRecov] = 1), the state of the MCi_STATUS[PCC] bit indicates 
whether system execution can continue. If a particular processor does not support survivable MCA 
overflow and overflow occurs, software must halt instruction execution on that processor core 
regardless of the state of the PCC bit because critical information may have been lost as a result of the 
overflow. See the description of the Machine-Check Status registers below for more information on 
the PCC bit.
9.3.2.2  Machine-Check Recovery
Machine Check Recovery is a feature allowing recovery of the system when the hardware cannot 
correct an error. Machine Check Recovery is supported when CPUID 
Fn8000_0007_EBX[SUCCOR]=1.
When Machine Check Recovery is supported and an uncorrected error has been detected that the 
hardware can contain to the task or process to which the machine check has been delivered, it logs a 
context-synchronous uncorrectable error (MCi_STATUS[UC]=1, MCi_STATUS[PCC]=0). The rest 
of the system is unaffected and may continue running if supervisory software can terminate only the 
affected process context.
9.3.2.3  Machine-Check Control Registers
The machine-check control registers (MCi_CTL), as shown in Figure 9-6, contain an enable bit for 
each error source within an error-reporting register bank. Setting an enable bit to 1 enables error 
reporting for the specific feature controlled by the bit, and clearing the bit to 0 disables error reporting 
Table 9-3.
Error Logging Priorities
Previous Error Type
Corrected
Deferred
Uncorrected
Current 
Error 
Type
Corrected
Discard Current
Discard Current
Discard Current
Deferred
Overwrite Previous
Discard Current
Discard Current
Uncorrected
Overwrite Previous
Overwrite Previous
Discard Current
Note(s):
1.
Logging a deferred error has priority over the retention of information concerning a prior corrected error.
2. Logging an uncorrected error has priority over the retention of information concerning either a prior deferred
or corrected error.
3. Valid Information concerning an uncorrected error is not overwritten by any subsequent errors.
[AMD Public Use]
