678
Shadow Stacks
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
18
Shadow Stacks
The shadow stack mechanism facilitates protection against a common form of computer exploit 
known as Return Oriented Programming (ROP). ROP exploits utilize intentionally corrupted stack 
frames to divert normal processor control flow into short fragments of existing executable code, which 
ultimately end with a RET instruction. These fragments are then chained together using return 
addresses previously written to the stack by the attacker.
The shadow stack mechanism protects against ROP exploits by ensuring that return addresses read 
from the stack by RET and IRET instructions originated from a CALL instruction or similar control 
transfer.
In the following sections, the term ‘program stack’ is used to distinguish the stack pointed to by the SP 
register and manipulated by instructions (such as PUSH, POP, ENTER, LEAVE) from the shadow 
stack.
18.1
Shadow Stack Overview
A shadow stack is a separate, protected stack that is conceptually parallel to the program stack and 
used only by control-transfer and return instructions. When shadow stacks are enabled, most control 
transfers that save a return address (such as CALL, INTn, exceptions and interrupts) write the return 
address to the shadow stack in addition to the program stack. Upon the subsequent RET or IRET 
operation, the processor reads the return address from both stacks and checks that they match. A 
control-protection exception (#CP) is raised if the return addresses do not match.
The shadow stack is implemented in regions of memory marked with the “shadow stack” attribute in 
the page tables (see “Page-Protection Checks” on page 161). Pages with the shadow stack attribute are 
writeable only by control transfer operations that save a return address and by the shadow stack 
management instructions. Shadow stack pages are not writeable by ordinary data-access instructions 
and thus protected from tampering. 
18.1.1  Detecting and Enabling Shadow Stack Support
Support for the shadow stack feature is indicated by CPUID Fn0000_0007_ECX_x0[CET_SS](bit 
7)=1. This bit also indicates the shadow stack MSRs are present.
The shadow stack feature is enabled by setting CR4.CET (bit 23) = 1 (see “CR4 Register” on page 46). 
The shadow stack feature is operational when in protected mode (CR0.PE=1) with paging enabled 
(CR0.PG=1). Shadow stacks are disabled in virtual x86 mode (rFLAGS.VM=1).
Once the feature is enabled, shadow stack operation can be separately enabled in user mode and in 
supervisor mode using control bits in the S_CET and U_CET MSRs (see “Shadow Stack MSRs” on 
page 690).
[AMD Public Use]
