476
Software Debug and Performance Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Hardware does not maintain the LWP state in the active LWPCB. This is because the counters change 
with every event (not just every reported event), so keeping them in memory would generate a large 
amount of unnecessary memory traffic. Also, the LWPCB is in user memory and may be paged out to 
disk at any time, so the memory may not be available when needed. 
Saving State at Thread Context Switches
LWP requires that an operating system use the XSAVE and XRSTOR instructions to save and restore 
LWP state across context switches.
XRSTOR restores the LWP volatile state when restoring other system state. Some additional LWP 
state will be restored from the LWPCB when operations in ring 3 require that information.
LWP does not support the “lazy” state save and restore that is possible for floating point and SSE state. 
It does not interact with the CR0[TS] bit. Operating systems that support LWP must always do an 
XSAVE to preserve the old thread’s LWP context and an XRSTOR to set up the new LWP context. The 
OS can continue to do a lazy switch of the FP and SSE state by ensuring that the corresponding bits in 
EDX:EAX are clear when it executes the XSAVE and XRSTOR to handle the LWP context.
Saving State at SVM Worldswitch to a Different Guest
Hypervisors that allow guests to use LWP must save and restore LWP state when the guest OS 
changes. In addition to the usual information in the VMCB, the hypervisor must use 
XSAVE/XRSTOR to maintain the volatile LWP state and must also save and restore LWP_CFG. When 
switching between a guest that uses LWP and one that does not, the hypervisor changes the value of 
XFEATURE_ENABLED_MASK (XCR0), which ensures that LWP is only enabled in the appropriate 
guest.
A hypervisor need not modify the LWP state if the guest OS is not changed.
Enabling SVM Live Migration
Some hypervisors support live migration of a guest virtual machine. Live migration is when a 
hypervisor preserves the entire state of the guest running on one physical machine, copies that state to 
another physical machine, and then resumes execution of the guest on the new hardware.
To allow live migration among machines which may have different internal implementations of LWP, 
the hypervisor must present the common subset of features among all the hosts in the pool of machines 
that can be used. Furthermore, since the hypervisor may XSAVE LWP state on one machine and 
XRSTOR it on another machine, the contents of the XSAVE area must be consistent across all 
implementations.
This means that an implementation of LWP keeps all event counters internally, not in the LWPCB. If 
implementations were permitted to differ in this detail, a counter might not get properly restored after 
migrating the guest machine.
[AMD Public Use]
