342
SSE, MMX, and x87 Programming
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
11
SSE, MMX, and x87 Programming
This chapter describes the system-software implications of supporting applications that use the 
Streaming SIMD Extensions (SSE), MMXTM, and x87 instructions. Throughout this chapter, these 
instructions are collectively referred to as media and x87 (media/x87) instructions. A complete listing 
of the instructions that fall in this category—and the detailed operation of each instruction—can be 
found in volumes 4 and 5. Refer to Volume 1 for information on using these instructions in application 
software.
The SSE instruction set is comprised of the legacy SSE instruction set which includes the SSE1, SSE2, 
SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4A, SSE4.1, and SSE4.2 subsets and the extended SSE instruction set which 
includes the AVX, FMA4, XOP, and AVX512 subsets. Many of the extended SSE instructions support 
both 128-bit and 256-bit data types.
11.1
Overview of System-Software Considerations
Processor implementations can support different combinations of the SSE, MMX, and x87 instruction 
sets. Two sets of registers—independent of the general-purpose registers—support these instructions. 
The SSE instructions operate on the ZMM/YMM/XMM registers, and the 64-bit media and x87-
instructions operate on the aliased MMX/x87 registers. The SSE and x87 floating-point instruction 
sets have distinct status registers, control registers, exception vectors, and system-software control bits 
for managing the operating environment. System software that supports use of these instructions must 
be able to manage these resources properly including:
•
Detecting support for the instruction set, and enabling any optional features, as necessary.
•
Saving and restoring the processor media or x87 state.
•
Execution of floating-point instructions (media or x87) can produce exceptions. System software 
must supply exception handlers for all unmasked floating-point exceptions.
11.2
Determining Media and x87 Feature Support
Support for the architecturally defined subsets within the media and x87 instructions is 
implementation dependent. System software executes the CPUID instruction to determine whether a 
processor implements any of these features (see Section 3.3, “Processor Feature Identification,” on 
page 71 for more information on using the CPUID instruction). After CPUID is executed feature 
support can be determined by examining specific bit fields returned in the EAX, ECX, and EDX 
registers. 
The following table summarizes the architecturally defined SSE subsets and state management 
instructions and gives the feature bits returned by the CPUID function. If the indicated bit is set, the 
feature is supported by the processor.
[AMD Public Use]
