298
Machine Check Architecture
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Hardware categorizes errors into three classes. These are: 
•
corrected
•
uncorrected
•
deferred
The following sections describe the characteristics of each of these error classes:
If an error can be corrected by hardware, no immediate action by software is required. In this case, 
information is logged, if enabled, to aid in later diagnosis and possible repair. 
If correction is not possible, the error is classified as uncorrected. The occurrence of an uncorrected 
error requires immediate action by system software to either correct the error and resume the 
interrupted program or, if software-based correction is not possible, to determine the extent of the 
impact of the uncorrected error to any executing instruction stream or the architectural state of the 
processor or system and take actions to contain the error condition by terminating corrupted software 
processes.
For errors that are not corrected, but have no immediate impact on the architectural state of the system, 
processor core, or any current thread of execution, the error may be classified by hardware as a 
deferred error. Information about deferred errors is logged, if enabled, but not reported via a machine-
check exception. Instead hardware monitors the error and escalates the error classification to 
uncorrected at the point in time where the error condition is about to impact the execution of an 
instruction stream or cause the corruption of the processor core or system architectural state. 
This escalation results in a #MC exception, assuming that reporting for that error source is enabled. If 
software can correct the error, it may be possible to resume the affected program. If not, software can 
terminate the affected program rather than bringing down the entire system. This is referred to as error 
localization.
A common example of deferred error processing and localization is the conversion of globally 
uncorrected DRAM errors to process-specific consumed memory errors. In this example, uncorrected 
ECC-protected data that has not yet been consumed by any processor core is tagged as “poison.” 
Hardware reports the uncorrected data as a localized error via a #MC exception when it is about to be 
used (“consumed”) by an instruction execution stream.
In contrast, an error that cannot be contained and is of such severity that it has compromised the 
continued operation of a processor core requires immediate action to terminate system processing and 
may result in a hardware-enforced shutdown. In the shutdown state, the execution of instructions by 
that processor core is halted. See Section 8.2.9 “#DF—Double-Fault Exception (Vector 8)” on 
page 251 for a description of the shutdown processor state.
If supported, system software can chose to configure and enable hardware to generate an interrupt 
when a deferred error is first detected. Corrected errors may be counted as they are logged. If 
supported and enabled, exceeding a software-configured count threshold may be signalled via an 
interrupt. These notification mechanisms are independent of machine-check reporting. 
[AMD Public Use]
