Secure Virtual Machine
613
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
15.36.13  Debug Registers 
SEV-ES and SNP-active guests may choose to enable full virtualization of CPU debug registers 
through SEV_FEATURES bit 5 (DebugVirtualization). 
When enabled, the DR[0-3] registers and DR[0-3]_ADDR_MASK registers are swapped as type ‘B’ 
state (see Appendix B). 
15.36.14  Memory Types 
When an SNP-active guest accesses memory, the hardware forces the use of coherent memory types. 
This prevents the hypervisor from attempting to corrupt guest memory by the use of non-coherent 
memory types for accesses by the guest. 
If a guest memory access is determined to be non-coherent after the memory type determination logic 
described in Section 15.25.8, the hardware forces a coherent type as described in Table 15-40.
15.36.15  TLB management 
For non-SNP-active guests, when a hypervisor moves a VMSA to a new logical processor it must 
ensure that the VMSA cannot use any stale (incorrect) TLB translations to prevent corruption of the 
guest. For SNP-active guests, to avoid any dependency on the hypervisor for correctly managing guest 
TLB contents, the hardware detects when the VMSA is moved and manages the TLB for that guest 
automatically. The hardware uses two VMSA fields to track this information: the TLB_ID (byte offset 
3D0h) and the PCPU_ID (byte offset 3D8h). 
During guest creation, software should initialize the TLB_ID and PCPU_ID by setting both to zero. 
The hardware subsequently manages the values in both fields throughout the lifetime of that VMSA. 
During operation, software may explicitly write PCPU_ID to 0 to force a TLB flush on the next 
VMRUN to that VMSA if desired. If this occurs, the hardware will set the PCPU_ID field to a non-
zero value when it flushes the TLB.
For example, when guest software performs an RMPADJUST to alter the permissions of a VMPL, it 
may need to ensure that the existing TLB entries of all vCPUs executing at the targeted VMPL are not 
used anymore. The guest software can do this by writing zero to PCPU_ID of the affected VMSAs. 
When these VMSAs are re-entered with VMRUN, the hardware will ensure existing TLB entries are 
no longer used and set PCPU_ID to a non-zero value. This value can be checked for non-zero by the 
guest software to ensure the operation has completed before proceeding.
As with any guest, the hypervisor may use the TLB_CONTROL field in the VMCB to force TLB 
flushes when desired. When the hypervisor writes 3h or 7h to TLB_CONTROL, both global and non-
global TLB entries of the guest are invalidated.
Table 15-40.
Non-Coherent Memory Type Conversion
Non-Coherent Memory Type
Forced Coherent Memory Type
UC
CD
WC
WC+
[AMD Public Use]
