284
Exceptions and Interrupts
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Figure 8-14.
Long-Mode Stack After Interrupt—Same Privilege
Interrupt-Stack Alignment.  In legacy mode, the interrupt-stack pointer can be aligned at any address 
boundary. Long mode, however, aligns the stack on a 16-byte boundary. This alignment is performed 
by the processor in hardware before pushing items onto the stack frame. The previous RSP is saved 
unconditionally on the new stack by the interrupt mechanism. A subsequent IRET instruction 
automatically restores the previous RSP.
Aligning the stack on a 16-byte boundary allows optimal performance for saving and restoring the 16-
byte XMM registers. The interrupt handler can save and restore the XMM registers using the faster 16-
byte aligned loads and stores (MOVAPS), rather than unaligned loads and stores (MOVUPS). 
Although the RSP alignment is always performed in long mode, it is only of consequence when the 
interrupted program is already running at CPL=0, and it is generally used only within the operating-
system kernel. The operating system should put 16-byte aligned RSP values in the TSS for interrupts 
that change privilege levels.
Stack Switch.  In long mode, the stack-switch mechanism differs slightly from the legacy stack-
switch mechanism (see Section “Interrupt To Higher Privilege” on page 273). When stacks are 
switched during a long-mode privilege-level change resulting from an interrupt, a new SS descriptor is 
not loaded from the TSS. Long mode only loads an inner-level RSP from the TSS. However, the SS 
selector is loaded with a null selector, allowing nested control transfers, including interrupts, to be 
handled properly in 64-bit mode. The SS.RPL is set to the new CPL value. See Section “Nested IRETs 
to 64-Bit Mode Procedures” on page 287 for additional information.
Return SS
Return CS
Error Code
With Error Code
Return RIP
Return RFLAGS
Return RSP
RSP
+8
+16
+24
+32
+40
Return SS
Return CS
With No Error Code
Return RIP
Return RFLAGS
Return RSP
RSP
+8
+16
+24
+32
Interrupt-Handler Stack
[AMD Public Use]
