Exceptions and Interrupts
249
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
The RFLAGS.RF bit can be used to restart an instruction following an instruction breakpoint resulting 
in a #DB. In most cases, the processor clears RFLAGS.RF to 0 after every instruction is successfully 
executed. However, in the case of the IRET, JMP, CALL, and INTn (through a task gate) instructions, 
RFLAGS.RF is not cleared to 0 until the next instruction successfully executes.
When a non-debug exception occurs (or when a string instruction is interrupted), the processor 
normally sets RFLAGS.RF to 1 in the rFLAGS image that is pushed on the interrupt stack. A 
subsequent IRET back to the interrupted program pops the rFLAGS image off the stack and into the 
RFLAGS register, with RFLAGS.RF=1. The interrupted instruction executes without causing an 
instruction breakpoint, after which the processor clears RFLAGS.RF to 0.
However, when a #DB exception occurs, the processor clears RFLAGS.RF to 0 in the rFLAGS image 
that is pushed on the interrupt stack. The #DB handler has two options:
•
Disable the instruction breakpoint completely.
•
Set RFLAGS.RF to 1 in the interrupt-stack rFLAGS image. The instruction breakpoint condition
is ignored immediately after the IRET, but reoccurs if the instruction address is accessed later, as
can occur in a program loop.
8.2.3  NMI—Non-Maskable-Interrupt Exception (Vector 2)
An NMI exception occurs as a result of system logic signaling a non-maskable interrupt to the 
processor.
Error Code Returned.  None.
Program Restart.  NMI is an interrupt. The processor recognizes an NMI at an instruction boundary. 
The saved instruction pointer points to the instruction immediately following the boundary where the 
NMI was recognized.
Masking.  NMI cannot be masked. However, when an NMI is recognized by the processor, 
recognition of subsequent NMIs are disabled until an IRET instruction is executed. 
8.2.4  #BP—Breakpoint Exception (Vector 3)
A #BP exception occurs when an INT3 instruction is executed. The INT3 is normally used by debug 
software to set instruction breakpoints by replacing instruction-opcode bytes with the INT3 opcode.
#BP cannot be disabled.
Error Code Returned.  None.
Program Restart.  #BP is a trap-type exception. The saved instruction pointer points to the byte after 
the INT3 instruction. This location can be the start of the next instruction. However, if the INT3 is used 
to replace the first opcode bytes of an instruction, the restart location is likely to be in the middle of an 
instruction. In the latter case, the debug software must replace the INT3 byte with the correct 
instruction byte. The saved RIP instruction pointer must then be decremented by one before returning 
[AMD Public Use]
