Page Translation and Protection
163
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
When the processor is running at a CPL of 0, 1, or 2, it can access both user and supervisor pages 
unless restricted by SMEP or SMAP (See sections “Supervisor-Mode Execution Prevention 
(CR4.SMEP) Bit” on page 164 and “Supervisor-Mode Access Prevention(CR4.SMAP) Bit” on 
page 164 for further details). However, when the processor is running at a CPL of 3, it can only access 
user pages. If an attempt is made to access a supervisor page while the processor is running at CPL = 3, 
a page-fault exception (#PF) occurs.
See “Privilege-Level Concept” on page 105 for more information on processor privilege levels.
5.6.2  Read/Write (R/W) Bit
The R/W bit in the page-translation tables specifies the access type allowed for the page. If R/W=0 in 
any of the page table entries traversed during a table walk, the page is read-only. If R/W=1 in all the 
page table entries traversed during a table walk, the page is read/write. A page-fault exception (#PF) 
occurs if an attempt is made by user software to write to a read-only page. If supervisor software 
attempts to write a read-only page, the outcome depends on the value of the CR0.WP bit (described 
below).
5.6.3  No Execute (NX) Bit
The NX bit provides the ability to mark a page as non-executable. If the NX bit is set at any level of the 
page-table hierarchy in the table entries traversed during a table walk, the page mapped by those 
entries is a no-execute page. When no-execute protection is enabled, any attempt to fetch an 
instruction from a no-execute page results in a page-fault exception (#PF).
The no-execute protection check applies to all privilege levels. It does not distinguish between 
supervisor and user-level accesses.
The no-execute protection feature is supported only in PAE-paging mode. In 32-bit PAE mode, the NX 
bit is not supported at the Page Directory Pointer table level. In this mode, the value of the NX bit at 
the PDP level defaults to 0. 
No-execute protection is enabled by setting the NXE bit in the EFER register to 1. Before setting this 
bit, system software must verify the processor supports the no-execute feature by checking the CPUID 
NX feature flag (CPUID Fn8000_0001_EDX[NX]). 
5.6.4  Write Protect (CR0.WP) Bit
The ability to write to read-only pages is governed by the processor mode and whether write protection 
is enabled. If write protection is not enabled, a processor running at CPL 0, 1, or 2 can write to any 
physical page, even if it is marked as read-only. Enabling write protection by setting the WP bit in CR0 
prevents supervisor code from writing into read-only pages, including read-only user-level pages.
A page-fault exception (#PF) occurs if software attempts to write (at any privilege level) into a read-
only page while write protection is enabled.
[AMD Public Use]
