470
Software Debug and Performance Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
25
NMB
No mispredicted branches.
1—Mispredicted branches will not be counted.
0—Mispredicted branches will be counted if not suppressed by other filter 
conditions.
Caution: If NMB and NPB are both set, no branches will be counted.
Ignored if the Branches Retired event is not enabled or if the CPUID 
LwpBranchPrediction bit is 0 to indicate that the implementation does not filter by 
prediction.
26
NPB
No predicted branches.
1—Correctly predicted branches will not be counted. Note that since direct branches 
are always predicted correctly, this is a superset of the NDB filter.
0—Correctly predicted branches will be counted if not suppressed by other filter 
conditions.
Caution: If NMB and NPB are both set, no branches will be counted.
Ignored if the Branches Retired event is not enabled or if the CPUID 
LwpBranchPrediction bit is 0 to indicate that the implementation does not filter by 
prediction.
27
NAB
No absolute branches.
1—Absolute branches will not be counted. This only applies to jumps through a 
register or memory (JMP opcode FF /4) and calls through a register or memory 
(CALL opcode FF /2). Relative branches (both conditional and unconditional) 
are counted normally if not disabled via the NRB or NCB bits.
0—Absolute branches will be counted if not suppressed by other filter conditions.
Caution: If NRB, NCB, and NAB are all set, no branches will be counted.
Ignored if the Branches Retired event is not enabled.
28
NCB
No conditional branches.
1—Conditional branches will not be counted. This only applies to conditional jumps 
(Jcc) and loops (LOOPcc). Unconditional relative branches, indirect jumps 
through a register or memory, and returns are counted normally if not disabled 
via the NRB or NAB bits.
0—Conditional branches will be counted if not suppressed by other filter conditions.
Caution: If NRB, NCB, and NAB are all set, no branches will be counted.
Ignored if the Branches Retired event is not enabled.
Table 13-11.
LWPCB Filters Fields (continued)
Bits
Field
Description
[AMD Public Use]
