System-Programming Overview
5
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
1.2
Memory Management
Memory management consists of the methods by which addresses generated by software are translated 
by segmentation and/or paging into addresses in physical memory. Memory management is not visible 
to application software. It is handled by the system software and processor hardware.
1.2.1  Segmentation
Segmentation was originally created as a method by which system software could isolate software 
processes (tasks), and the data used by those processes, from one another in an effort to increase the 
reliability of systems running multiple processes simultaneously. 
The AMD64 architecture is designed to support all forms of legacy segmentation. However, most 
modern system software does not use the segmentation features available in the legacy x86 
architecture. Instead, system software typically handles program and data isolation using page-level 
protection. For this reason, the AMD64 architecture dispenses with multiple segments in 64-bit mode 
and, instead, uses a flat-memory model. The elimination of segmentation allows new 64-bit system 
software to be coded more simply, and it supports more efficient management of multi-processing than 
is possible in the legacy x86 architecture.
Segmentation is, however, used in compatibility mode and legacy mode. Here, segmentation is a form 
of base memory-addressing that allows software and data to be relocated in virtual-address space off 
of an arbitrary base address. Software and data can be relocated in virtual-address space using one or 
more variable-sized memory segments. The legacy x86 architecture provides several methods of 
restricting access to segments from other segments so that software and data can be protected from 
interfering with each other.
In compatibility and legacy modes, up to 16,383 unique segments can be defined. The base-address 
value, segment size (called a limit), protection, and other attributes for each segment are contained in a 
data structure called a segment descriptor. Collections of segment descriptors are held in descriptor 
tables. Specific segment descriptors are referenced or selected from the descriptor table using a 
segment selector register. Six segment-selector registers are available, providing access to as many as 
six segments at a time.
Figure 1-1 on page 6 shows an example of segmented memory. Segmentation is described in 
Chapter 4, “Segmented Virtual Memory.”
[AMD Public Use]
