296
Machine Check Architecture
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
9
Machine Check Architecture
The AMD64 Machine Check Architecture (MCA) plays a vital role in the reliability, availability, and 
serviceability (RAS) of AMD processors, as well as the RAS of the computer systems in which they 
are embedded. MCA defines the facilities by which processor and system hardware errors are logged 
and reported to system software. This allows system software to serve a strategic role in recovery from 
and diagnosis of hardware errors.
Error checking hardware is configured and information about detected error conditions is conveyed 
via an architecturally-defined set of registers. The system programming interface of MCA is described 
below in Section 9.3 “Machine Check Architecture MSRs” on page 301.
9.1
Introduction
All computer systems are susceptible to errors—results that are contrary to the system design. Errors 
can be categorized as soft or hard. Soft errors are caused by transient interference and are not 
necessarily indicative of any damage to the computer circuitry. These external events include noise 
from electromagnetic radiation and the incursion of sub-atomic particles that cause bit cell storage 
capacitors to change state.
Hard errors are repeatable malfunctions that are generally attributable to physical damage to computer 
circuitry. Damage may be caused by external forces (for example, voltage surges) or wear processes 
inherent in the circuit technology. Damaged circuit elements can manifest symptoms similar to those 
that are caused by soft error processes. An increase in the frequency of errors attributable to one circuit 
element may indicate that the element has sustained damage or is wearing-out and may, in the future, 
cause a hard error.
9.1.1  Reliability, Availability, and Serviceability
This section describes the concepts of reliability, availability, and serviceability (RAS) and shows how 
they are interrelated.
The rate at which errors occur in a computer system is a measure of the system’s reliability. 
Availability is the percentage of time that the system is available to do useful work. Errors that prevent 
a computer system from continued operation result in down-time, that is, periods of unavailability. 
Down-time includes the amount of time required to restore the system to operation. This may include 
the time to diagnose a failure, determine the field replaceable unit (FRU) containing the faulty 
circuitry, carry out the repair action required to replace the identified FRU, and restart the system. This 
time directly impacts the system’s availability and is a measure of the system’s serviceability. 
The availability of a computer system can be increased without decreasing performance or 
significantly increasing cost through the judicious addition of data and control path redundancy in 
concert with dedicated error-checking hardware. Together, redundancy and error checking detect and 
[AMD Public Use]
