34
x86 and AMD64 Architecture Differences
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
SWAPGS Instruction.  The AMD64 architecture provides the SWAPGS instruction as a fast method 
for system software to load a pointer to system data-structures. SWAPGS is valid only in 64-bit mode. 
An undefined-opcode exception (#UD) occurs if software attempts to execute SWAPGS in legacy 
mode or compatibility mode. See “SWAPGS Instruction” on page 176 for additional information.
SYSENTER and SYSEXIT Instructions.  The SYSENTER and SYSEXIT instructions are invalid in 
long mode, and result in an invalid opcode exception (#UD) if software attempts to use them. Software 
should use the SYSCALL and SYSRET instructions when running in long mode. See “SYSENTER 
and SYSEXIT (Legacy Mode Only)” on page 176 for additional information.
2.5.7  NOP Instruction
The legacy x86 architecture commonly uses opcode 90h as a one-byte NOP. In 64-bit mode, the 
processor treats opcode 90h specially in order to preserve this NOP definition. This is necessary 
because opcode 90h is actually the XCHG EAX, EAX instruction in the legacy architecture. Without 
special handling in 64-bit mode, the instruction would not be a true no-operation. Therefore, in 64-bit 
mode the processor treats opcode 90h (the legacy XCHG EAX, EAX instruction) as a true NOP, 
regardless of a REX operand-size prefix. 
This special handling does not apply to the two-byte ModRM form of the XCHG instruction. Unless a 
64-bit operand size is specified using a REX prefix byte, using the two-byte form of XCHG to 
exchange a register with itself does not result in a no-operation, because the default operation size is 32 
bits in 64-bit mode. 
2.5.8  Single-Byte INC and DEC Instructions
In 64-bit mode, the legacy encodings for the 16 single-byte INC and DEC instructions (one for each of 
the eight GPRs) are used to encode the REX prefix values. The functionality of these INC and DEC 
instructions is still available, however, using the ModRM forms of those instructions (opcodes FF /0 
and FF /1). See “Single-Byte INC and DEC Instructions in 64-Bit Mode” in Volume 3 for additional 
information.
2.5.9  MOVSXD Instruction
MOVSXD is a new instruction in 64-bit mode (the legacy ARPL instruction opcode, 63h, is 
reassigned as the MOVSXD opcode). It reads a fixed-size 32-bit source operand from a register or 
memory and (if a REX prefix is used with the instruction) sign-extends the value to 64 bits. MOVSXD 
is analogous to the MOVSX instruction, which sign-extends a byte to a word or a word to a 
doubleword, depending on the effective operand size. See the instruction reference page for the 
MOVSXD instruction in Volume 3 for additional information.
2.5.10  Invalid Instructions
Table 2-3 lists instructions that are illegal in 64-bit mode. Table 2-4 on page 35 lists instructions that 
are invalid in long mode (both compatibility mode and 64-bit mode). Attempted use of these 
instructions causes an invalid-opcode exception (#UD) to occur. 
[AMD Public Use]
