242
Exceptions and Interrupts
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
8
Exceptions and Interrupts
Exceptions and interrupts force control transfers from the currently-executing program to a system-
software service routine that handles the interrupting event. These routines are referred to as exception 
handlers and interrupt handlers, or collectively as event handlers. Typically, interrupt events can be 
handled by the service routine transparently to the interrupted program. During the control transfer to 
the service routine, the processor stops executing the interrupted program and saves its return pointer. 
The system-software service routine that handles the exception or interrupt is responsible for saving 
the state of the interrupted program. This allows the processor to restart the interrupted program after 
system software has handled the event.
When an exception or interrupt occurs, the processor uses the interrupt vector number as an index into 
the interrupt-descriptor table (IDT). An IDT is used in all processor operating modes, including real 
mode (also called real-address mode), protected mode, and long mode. 
Exceptions and interrupts come from three general sources:
•
Exceptions occur as a result of software execution errors or other internal-processor errors.
Exceptions also occur during non-error situations, such as program single stepping or address-
breakpoint detection. Exceptions are considered synchronous events because they are a direct
result of executing the interrupted instruction.
•
Software interrupts occur as a result of executing interrupt instructions. Unlike exceptions and
external interrupts, software interrupts allow intentional triggering of the interrupt-handling
mechanism. Like exceptions, software interrupts are synchronous events.
•
External interrupts are generated by system logic in response to an error or some other event
outside the processor. They are reported over the processor bus using external signaling. External
interrupts are asynchronous events that occur independently of the interrupted instruction. 
Throughout this section, the term masking can refer to either disabling or delaying an interrupt. For 
example, masking external interrupts delays the interrupt, with the processor holding the interrupt as 
pending until it is unmasked. With floating-point exceptions (SSE and x87), masking prevents an 
interrupt from occurring and causes the processor to perform a default operation on the exception 
condition.
8.1
General Characteristics
Exceptions and interrupts have several different characteristics that depend on how events are reported 
and the implications for program restart. 
8.1.1  Precision
Precision describes how the exception is related to the interrupted program:
•
Precise exceptions are reported on a predictable instruction boundary. This boundary is generally
the first instruction that has not completed when the event occurs. All previous instructions (in
[AMD Public Use]
