682
Shadow Stacks
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
18.6.2  Handling CS, LIP and SSP on Privilege Transistions
When changing to a new code segment, the shadow stack behavior for saving and restoring CS, LIP 
and SSP depends on the CPL of the originating far transfer.
Transitions from CPL=3
Inter-privilege far transfers originating at CPL=3 save the current user-level SSP to PL3_SSP rather 
than to the supervisor shadow stack. Upon the subsequent RETF/IRET back to CPL=3, the user-level 
SSP is restored from PL3_SSP and the return CS and LIP are not verified. 
Transitions from CPL=1 and CPL=2
Far transfers originating at CPL=1 or CPL=2 to an inner (more privileged) level save the current CS, 
LIP and SSP to the inner level shadow stack after switching shadow stacks as described in section 
Section 18.6.1, “Shadow Stack Switching,” on page 680. Upon the subsequent RET(far)/IRET, the 
SSP is restored (Section 18.6.1, “Shadow Stack Switching,” on page 680) from the inner-level shadow 
stack and the CS and LIP popped from the shadow stack are verified against the values read from the 
program stack. If the return addresses do not match, a control-protection (#CP) exception is generated.
18.6.3  Supervisor Shadow Stack Token
When switching shadow stacks, the processor validates the new shadow stack by checking a 
supervisor shadow stack token located at the base of the stack. 
When initially creating a shadow stack for use at privilege levels 0, 1 and 2, system software must 
place a supervisor shadow stack token at the base of each stack. System software must also store a 
pointer to each shadow stack in the appropriate shadow stack base register, PLn_SSP (n=0,1,2,3) using 
the WRMSR instruction.
The relationship of the shadow stacks, supervisor shadow stack tokens, and the PLn_SSP registers are 
shown in Figure 18.6.3 “Shadow Stacks and Supervisor Shadow Stack Tokens” on page 683. The 
three supervisor shadow stacks (PL0, PL1 and PL2) have shadow stack tokens stored at the base of the 
stack. Tokens are not used for PL3 shadow stacks.
[AMD Public Use]
