Exceptions and Interrupts
243
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
program order) are allowed to complete before transferring control to the event handler. The
pointer to the instruction boundary is saved automatically by the processor. When the event
handler completes execution, it returns to the interrupted program and restarts execution at the
interrupted-instruction boundary.
•
Imprecise exceptions are not guaranteed to be reported on a predictable instruction boundary. The
boundary can be any instruction that has not completed when the interrupt event occurs. Imprecise
events can be considered asynchronous, because the source of the interrupt is not necessarily
related to the interrupted instruction. Imprecise exception and interrupt handlers typically collect
machine-state information related to the interrupting event for reporting through system-
diagnostic software. The interrupted program is not restartable. 
8.1.2  Instruction Restart
As mentioned above, precise exceptions are reported on an instruction boundary. The instruction 
boundary can be reported in one of two locations:
•
Most exceptions report the boundary before the instruction causing the exception. In this case, all
previous instructions (in program order) are allowed to complete, but the interrupted instruction is
not. No program state is updated as a result of partially executing an interrupted instruction.
•
Some exceptions report the boundary after the instruction causing the exception. In this case, all
previous instructions—including the one executing when the exception occurred—are allowed to
complete. 
Program state can be updated when the reported boundary is after the instruction causing the
exception. This is particularly true when the event occurs as a result of a task switch. In this case,
the general registers, segment-selector registers, page-base address register, and LDTR are all
updated by the hardware task-switch mechanism. The event handler cannot rely on the state of
those registers when it begins execution and must be careful in validating the state of the segment-
selector registers before restarting the interrupted task. This is not an issue in long mode, however,
because the hardware task-switch mechanism is disabled in long mode.
8.1.3  Types of Exceptions
There are three types of exceptions, depending on whether they are precise and how they affect 
program restart:
•
Faults are precise exceptions reported on the boundary before the instruction causing the
exception. Generally, faults are caused by an error condition involving the faulted instruction. Any
machine-state changes caused by the faulting instruction are discarded so that the instruction can
be restarted. The saved rIP points to the faulting instruction.
•
Traps are precise exceptions reported on the boundary following the instruction causing the
exception. The trapped instruction is completed by the processor and all state changes are saved.
The saved rIP points to the instruction following the faulting instruction.
•
Aborts are imprecise exceptions. Because they are imprecise, aborts typically do not allow reliable
program restart.
[AMD Public Use]
