564
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
processing. System software sets up and initiates these interrupts by writing to control registers of the 
local APIC. AVIC hardware reduces VMM overhead by providing hardware assist for many of these 
operations.
Inter-processor Interrupts.  Inter-processor interrupts (IPIs) are used extensively by modern 
operating systems to handle communication between processor cores within a machine (or, in a 
virtualized environment, between virtual processors within a virtual machine). IPIs are also employed 
to provide signaling and synchronization for operations such as cross-processor TLB invalidations 
(also known as TLB shootdowns). AVIC provides hardware mechanisms that deliver the interrupt to 
the virtual interrupt controller of the target virtual processor without VMM intervention.
Device Interrupts. Acceleration of the delivery of virtual interrupts from I/O devices to virtual 
processors is not addressed directly by AVIC hardware. This acceleration would be provided by an I/O 
memory management unit (IOMMU). The AVIC architecture is compatible with the AMD I/O 
Memory Management Unit (IOMMU). For more information on the IOMMU architecture, see AMD 
I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification (order #48882). See “Device Interrupts” on 
page 577 for further details of device interrupt handling under the AVIC extension.
The following subsections describe the AVIC architecture in detail. 
15.29.2  Local APIC Register Virtualization
The system programming interface for the local APIC comprises a set of memory-mapped registers. In 
a non-virtualized environment, system software directly reads and writes these registers to configure 
the interrupt controller and initiate and process interrupts. In a virtualized environment, each guest 
operating system still requires access to this system programming interface but does not own the 
underlying interrupt processing hardware. To provide this facility to the guest operating system, 
VMM-level software emulates the local APIC for each guest virtual processor.
The AVIC architecture provides an image of the local APIC called the guest virtual APIC (guest 
vAPIC) in the guest physical address (GPA) space of each virtual processor when the virtual machine 
for the guest is instantiated. This image is backed by a page in the system physical address (SPA) space 
called a vAPIC backing page. The backing page remains pinned in system memory as long as the 
virtual machine persists, even when the specific virtual processor associated with the backing page is 
not running. Accesses to the memory-mapped register set by the guest are redirected by AVIC 
hardware to this backing page.
The VMM reads configuration, control, and command information written by the guest from the 
backing page and writes status information to this page for the guest to read. The guest is allowed to 
read most registers directly without the need for VMM intervention. Most writes are intercepted 
allowing the VMM to process and act on the configuration, control, and command data from the guest. 
However, for certain frequently used command and control operations, specific hardware support 
allows the guest to directly initiate interrupts and complete end of interrupt processing, eliminating the 
need for VMM intervention in the execution of performance-critical operations.
[AMD Public Use]
