x86 and AMD64 Architecture Differences
33
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
The address size of near branches is not forced in 64-bit mode. Such addresses are 64 bits by default, 
but they can be overridden to 32 bits by a prefix. 
The size of the displacement field for relative branches is still limited to 32 bits.
Far Branches Through Long-Mode Call Gates.  Long mode redefines the 32-bit call-gate 
descriptor type as a 64-bit call-gate descriptor and expands the call-gate descriptor size to hold a 64-bit 
offset. The long-mode call-gate descriptor allows far branches to reference any location in the 
supported virtual-address space. In long mode, the call-gate mechanism is changed as follows:
•
In long mode, CALL and JMP instructions that reference call-gates must reference 64-bit call
gates.
•
A 64-bit call-gate descriptor must reference a 64-bit code-segment.
•
When a control transfer is made through a 64-bit call gate, the 64-bit target address is read from the
64-bit call-gate descriptor. The base address in the target code-segment descriptor is ignored.
Stack Switching.  Automatic stack switching is also modified when a control transfer occurs through 
a call gate in long mode:
•
The target-stack pointer read from the TSS is a 64-bit RSP value.
•
The SS register is loaded with a null selector. Setting the new SS selector to null allows nested
control transfers in 64-bit mode to be handled properly. The SS.RPL value is updated to remain
consistent with the newly loaded CPL value.
•
The size of pushes onto the new stack is modified to accommodate the 64-bit RIP and RSP values.
•
Automatic parameter copying is not supported in long mode.
Far Returns.  In long mode, far returns can load a null SS selector from the stack under the following 
conditions: 
•
The target operating mode is 64-bit mode.
•
The target CPL<3.
Allowing RET to load SS with a null selector under these conditions makes it possible for the 
processor to unnest far CALLs (and interrupts) in long mode.
Task Gates.  Control transfers through task gates are not supported in long mode.
Branches to 64-Bit Offsets.  Because immediate values are generally limited to 32 bits, the only way 
a full 64-bit absolute RIP can be specified in 64-bit mode is with an indirect branch. For this reason, 
direct forms of far branches are eliminated from the instruction set in 64-bit mode. 
SYSCALL and SYSRET Instructions.  The AMD64 architecture expands the function of the legacy 
SYSCALL and SYSRET instructions in long mode. In addition, two new STAR registers, LSTAR and 
CSTAR, are provided to hold the 64-bit target RIP for the instructions when they are executed in long 
mode. The legacy STAR register is not expanded in long mode. See “SYSCALL and SYSRET” on 
page 174 for additional information.
[AMD Public Use]
