84
Segmented Virtual Memory
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Figure 4-8.
GDTR and IDTR Format—Long Mode
The GDTR contains two fields:
Limit.  2 bytes. These bits define the 16-bit limit, or size, of the GDT in bytes. The limit value is added 
to the base address to yield the ending byte address of the GDT. A general-protection exception (#GP) 
occurs if software attempts to access a descriptor beyond the GDT limit.
The offsets into the descriptor tables are not extended by the AMD64 architecture in support of long 
mode. Therefore, the GDTR and IDTR limit-field sizes are unchanged from the legacy sizes. The 
processor does check the limits in long mode during GDT and IDT accesses.
Base Address.  8 bytes. The base-address field holds the starting byte address of the GDT in virtual-
memory space. The GDT can be located at any byte address in virtual memory, but system software 
should align the GDT on a quadword boundary to avoid the potential performance penalties associated 
with accessing unaligned data. 
The AMD64 architecture increases the base-address field of the GDTR to 64 bits so that system 
software running in long mode can locate the GDT anywhere in the 64-bit virtual-address space. The 
processor ignores the high-order 4 bytes of base address when running in legacy mode.
4.6.3  Local Descriptor Table
Protected-mode system software can optionally create a local descriptor table (LDT) to hold segment 
descriptors belonging to a single task or even multiple tasks. The LDT typically contains code-
segment and data-segment descriptors as well as gate descriptors referenced by the specified task. Like 
the GDT, system software can store the LDT anywhere in memory and should protect the segment 
containing the LDT from non-privileged software.
Segment selectors point to the LDT when the table-index bit (TI) in the selector is set to 1. The selector 
index portion of the segment selector references a specific entry in the LDT (see Figure 4-6 on 
page 83). Unlike the GDT, however, a selector index of 0 references the first entry in the LDT (when 
TI=1, the selector is not a null selector).
LDTs are described by system-segment descriptor entries located in the GDT, and a GDT can contain 
multiple LDT descriptors. The LDT system-segment descriptor defines the location, size, and 
privilege rights for the LDT. Figure 4-9 on page 85 shows the relationship between the LDT and GDT 
data structures.
513-266.eps
16-Bit Descriptor-Table Limit
64-Bit Descriptor-Table Base Address
[AMD Public Use]
