210
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
7.6.3  Cache and Memory Management Instructions
Data Prefetch.  The prefetch instructions are used by software as a hint to the processor that the 
referenced data is likely to be used in the near future. The processor can preload the cache line 
containing the data in anticipation of its use. PREFETCH provides a hint that the data is to be read. 
PREFETCHW provides a hint that the data is to be written. The processor can mark the line as 
modified if it is preloaded using PREFETCHW.
Memory Ordering.  Instructions are provided for software to enforce memory ordering (serialization) 
in weakly-ordered memory types. These instructions are:
•
SFENCE (store fence)—forces all memory writes (stores) preceding the SFENCE (in program
order) to be written into memory before memory writes following the SFENCE.
•
LFENCE (load fence)—forces all memory reads (loads) preceding the LFENCE (in program
order) to be read from memory before memory reads following the LFENCE. In some systems,
LFENCE may be configured to be dispatch serializing. In systems where CPUID
Fn8000_0021_EAX[LFenceAlwaysSerializing] (bit 2) = 1, LFENCE is always dispatch
serializing. 
•
MFENCE (memory fence)—forces all memory accesses (reads and writes) preceding the
MFENCE (in program order) to be written into or read from memory before memory accesses
following the MFENCE.
Cache Line Writeback and Flush.  The CLFLUSH instruction (writeback, if modified, and 
invalidate) takes the byte memory-address operand (a linear address), and checks to see if the address 
is cached. If the address is cached, the entire cache line containing the address is invalidated. If any 
portion of the cache line is dirty (in the modified or owned state), the entire line is written to main 
memory before it is invalidated. CLFLUSH affects all caches in the memory hierarchy—internal and 
external to the processor, and across all cores. The CLWB instruction operates in the same manner 
except it does not invalidate the cache line. The checking and invalidation process continues until the 
address has been updated in memory and, for CLFLUSH, invalidated in all caches.
In most cases, the underlying memory type assigned to the address has no effect on the behavior of this 
instruction. However, when the underlying memory type for the address is UC or WC (as defined by 
the MTRRs), the processor does not proceed with checking all caches to see if the address is cached. In 
both cases, the address is uncacheable, and invalidation is unnecessary. Write-combining buffers are 
written back to memory if the corresponding physical address falls within the buffer active-address 
range.
Cache Writeback and Invalidate.  Unlike the CLFLUSH and CLWB instructions, the WBINVD and 
WBNOINVD instructions operate on the entire cache, rather than a single cache line. The WBINVD 
and WBNOINVD instructions first write back all cache lines that are dirty (in the modified or owned 
state) to main memory. After writeback is complete, the WBINVD instruction additionally invalidates 
all cache lines. The checking and invalidation process continues until all internal caches in the 
executing core's path to system memory are invalidated. In some implementations this may include 
caches in other branches of the system's cache hierarchy; see the description of these instructions in 
[AMD Public Use]
