Page Translation and Protection
131
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
CR4.PSE, as shown in Figure 5-1 on page 129. When PDE.PS is cleared to 0, standard 4-Kbyte 
physical pages are used, and the PTE is the lowest level of the translation hierarchy.
When PDPE.PS is set to 1, 1-Gbyte physical pages are used, and the PDPE becomes the lowest level of 
the translation hierarchy. Neither the PDE nor PTE are used for 1-Gbyte paging.
5.2
Legacy-Mode Page Translation
Legacy mode supports two forms of translation:
•
Normal (non-PAE) Paging—This is used when physical-address extensions are disabled
(CR4.PAE=0). Entries in the page translation table are 32 bits and are used to translate 32-bit
virtual addresses into physical addresses as large as 40 bits.
•
PAE Paging—This is used when physical-address extensions are enabled (CR4.PAE=1). Entries in
the page translation table are 64 bits and are used to translate 32-bit virtual addresses into physical
addresses as large as 52 bits.
Legacy paging uses up to three levels of page-translation tables, depending on the paging form used 
and the physical-page size. Entries within each table are selected using virtual-address bit fields. The 
legacy page-translation tables are:
•
Page Table—Each page-table entry (PTE) points to a physical page. If 4-Kbyte pages are used, the
page table is the lowest level of the page-translation hierarchy. PTEs are not used when translating
2-Mbyte or 4-Mbyte pages.
•
Page Directory—If 4-Kbyte pages are used, each page-directory entry (PDE) points to a page
table. If 2-Mbyte or 4-Mbyte pages are used, a PDE is the lowest level of the page-translation
hierarchy and points to a physical page. In non-PAE paging, the page directory is the highest level
of the translation hierarchy.
•
Page-Directory Pointer—Each page-directory pointer entry (PDPE) points to a page directory.
Page-directory pointers are only used in PAE paging (CR4.PAE=1), and are the highest level in the
legacy page-translation hierarchy.
The translation-table-entry formats and how they are used in the various forms of legacy page 
translation are described beginning on page 132.
5.2.1  CR3 Register
The CR3 register is used to point to the base address of the highest-level page-translation table. The 
base address is either the page-directory pointer table or the page directory table. The CR3 register 
format depends on the form of paging being used. Figure 5-2 on page 132 shows the CR3 format when 
normal (non-PAE) paging is used (CR4.PAE=0). Figure 5-3 shows the CR3 format when PAE paging 
is used (CR4.PAE=1).
[AMD Public Use]
