Secure Virtual Machine
539
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
•
The most involved solution is to containerize SMM by placing it in a guest. Containerizing gives
the VMM full control over the state that the SMM handler can access.
Containerizing Platform SMM.  A VMM can containerize SMM by creating its own trusted SMM 
hypervisor and use that handler to run the platform SMM code in a container. The SMM hypervisor 
may be the same code as the VMM itself, or may be an entirely different set of code. The trusted SMM 
hypervisor sets up a guest context to run the platform SMM as a guest. The guest context consists of a 
VMCB and related state and the guest's (real or virtual) SMM save area. The SMM hypervisor 
emulates SMM entry, including setup of the SMM save area, and emulates RSM at the end of SMM 
operation.   The guest executes the platform SMM code in paged real mode with appropriate SVM 
intercepts in place, thus ensuring security.
For this approach to work, the VMM may need to write the SMM_BASE MSR, as well as related 
SMM control registers. As part of the emulation of SMM entry and RSM, the VMM needs to access 
the SMM_CTL MSR (see Section 15.30.3). However, these actions conflict with any platform 
firmware that locks SMM control registers.
A VMM can determine if it is running with a compatible firmware setup by checking the SMMLOCK 
bit in the HWCR MSR (described in the BIOS and Kernel Developer’s Guide (BKDG) or Processor 
Programming Reference Manual (PPR)  applicable to your product). If the bit is 1, firmware has 
locked the SMM control registers and the VMM is unable to move them or insert its own SMM 
hypervisor. 
As the processor physically enters SMM, the SMRAM regions are remapped. The VMM design must 
ensure that none of its code or data disappears when the SMRAM areas are mapped or unmapped. 
Also note that the ASEG region of the SMRAM overlaps with a portion of video memory, so the SMM 
hypervisor should not attempt to write diagnostic messages to the screen. Any attempt by guests to 
relocate any of the SMRAM areas (by means of certain MSR writes) must also be intercepted to 
prevent malicious SMM code from interfering with VMM operation.
Writes to the SMM_CTL MSR cause a #GP if firmware has locked the SMM control registers.
15.23
Last Branch Record Virtualization
The debug control MSR (DebugCtl) provides control of control-transfer recording and other debug 
facilities. (See Chapter 13, “Software Debug and Performance Resources,” on page 390, for more 
information on using the debug control MSR.) Software sets the last-branch record (DebugCtl[LBR]) 
bit to 1 to cause the processor to record the source and target addresses of the last control transfer taken 
before a debug exception. These control transfers include branch instructions, interrupts, and 
exceptions. Recorded information is stored in four MSRs:
•
LastBranchFromIP
•
LastBranchToIP
•
LastIntFromIP 
•
LastIntToIP
[AMD Public Use]
