38
x86 and AMD64 Architecture Differences
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
In 64-bit mode, IRET unconditionally pops SS:eSP off of the interrupt stack frame, even if the CPL 
does not change. This is done because the original interrupt always pushes SS:RSP. Because interrupt 
stack-frame pushes are always eight bytes in long mode, an IRET from a long-mode interrupt handler 
(64-bit code) must pop eight-byte items off the stack. This is accomplished by preceding the IRET 
with a 64-bit REX operand-size prefix. 
In long mode, an IRET can load a null SS selector from the stack under the following conditions: 
•
The target operating mode is 64-bit mode.
•
The target CPL< 3.
Allowing IRET to load SS with a null selector under these conditions makes it possible for the 
processor to unnest interrupts (and far CALLs) in long mode.
2.6.5  Task-Priority Register (CR8)
The AMD64 architecture allows software to define up to 15 external interrupt-priority classes. Priority 
classes are numbered from 1 to 15, with priority-class 1 being the lowest and priority-class 15 the 
highest. 
A new control register (CR8) is introduced by the AMD64 architecture for managing priority classes. 
This register, also called the task-priority register (TPR), uses the four low-order bits for specifying a 
task priority. How external interrupts are organized into these priority classes is implementation 
dependent. See “External Interrupt Priorities” on page 267 for information on this feature.
2.6.6  New Exception Conditions
The AMD64 architecture defines a number of new conditions that can cause an exception to occur 
when the processor is running in long mode. Many of the conditions occur when software attempts to 
use an address that is not in canonical form. See “Vectors” on page 245 for information on the new 
exception conditions that can occur in long mode.
2.7
Hardware Task Switching
The legacy hardware task-switch mechanism is disabled when the processor is running in long mode. 
However, long mode requires system software to create data structures for a single task—the long-
mode task.
•
TSS Descriptors—A new TSS-descriptor type, the 64-bit TSS type, is defined for use in long
mode. It is the only valid TSS type that can be used in long mode, and it must be loaded into the TR
by executing the LTR instruction in 64-bit mode. See “TSS Descriptor” on page 369 for additional
information.
•
Task Gates—Because the legacy task-switch mechanism is not supported in long mode, software
cannot use task gates in long mode. Any attempt to transfer control to another task through a task
gate causes a general-protection exception (#GP) to occur.
[AMD Public Use]
