Segmented Virtual Memory
119
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
switching stacks in long mode is similar to switching in legacy mode when no parameters are passed. 
The process is as follows:
1. The target code-segment DPL is read by the processor and used as an index into the 64-bit TSS
for selecting the new stack pointer (RSP). 
2. The RSP register is loaded with the new RSP value read from the TSS. The SS register is loaded
with a null selector (SS0). Setting the new SS selector to null allows proper handling of nested
control transfers in 64-bit mode. See “Nested Returns to 64-Bit Mode Procedures” on page 121
for additional information.
As in legacy mode, it is desirable to keep the stack-segment requestor privilege-level (SS.RPL)
equal to the current privilege-level (CPL). When using a call gate to change privilege levels, the
SS.RPL is updated to reflect the new CPL. The SS.RPL is restored from the return-target CS.RPL
on the subsequent privilege-level-changing far return.
3. The old values of the SS and RSP registers are pushed onto the stack pointed to by the new RSP.
The old SS value is popped on a subsequent far return. This allows system software to set up the
SS selector for a compatibility-mode process by executing a RET (or IRET) that changes the
privilege level.
4. The return pointer is pushed onto the stack. The return pointer consists of the current CS-register
value and the RIP of the instruction following the calling instruction.
5. The CS register is loaded from the segment-selector field in the long-mode call-gate descriptor,
and the RIP is loaded from the offset field in the long-mode call-gate descriptor.
The target program begins execution with the instruction referenced by the new RIP.
Figure 4-35.
Stack Switch—Long Mode
All long-mode stack pushes resulting from a privilege-level-changing far call are eight-bytes wide and 
increment the RSP by eight. Long mode ignores the call-gate count field and does not support the 
automatic parameter-copy feature found in legacy mode. Software can access parameters on the old 
stack, if necessary, by referencing the old stack segment selector and stack pointer saved on the new 
process stack.
513-226.eps
Old SS:RSP
Old
64-Bit Stack
Before CALL
New
64-Bit Stack
After CALL
Old RIP
Old RSP
Old SS
Old CS
+8
+16
+24
New RSP
Stack Switch
(SS=0 + new_CPL)
[AMD Public Use]
