Page Translation and Protection
159
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
extensions are disabled. When CR4.PGE=1, setting the global (G) bit in the translation-table entry 
marks the page as global.
The INVLPG instruction ignores the G bit and can be used to invalidate individual global-page entries 
in the TLB. To invalidate all entries, including global-page entries, disable global-page extensions 
(CR4.PGE=0).
5.5.3  TLB Management
Generally, unless system software modifies the linear-to-physical address mapping, the processor 
manages the TLB transparently to software. This includes allocating entries and replacing old entries 
with new entries. In general, software changes made to paging-data structures are not automatically 
reflected in the TLB. In these situations, it is necessary for software to invalidate TLB entries so that 
these changes will be propagated to the page-translation mechanism.
TLB entries can be explicitly invalidated using operations intended for that purpose or implicitly 
invalidated as a result of another operation. TLB invalidation has no effect on the associated page-
translation tables in memory.
Explicit Invalidations.  Several mechanisms are provided to explicitly invalidate the TLB:
•
The Invalidate TLB Entry instruction (INVLPG) can be used to invalidate a specific entry within
the TLB. This instruction invalidates an entry regardless of whether it is marked as global or not.
•
The Invalidate TLB entry in a Specified ASID instruction (INVLPGA) operates similarly, but
operates only on entries associated with the specified ASID. See “Invalidate Page, Alternate
ASID” on page 530.
•
The Invalidate TLB with Broadcast instruction (INVLPGB) can be used to invalidate a specified
range of TLB entries on the local processor and broadcast the invalidation operation to remote
processors. See INVLPGB in Volume 3.
•
The Invalidate TLB entries in Specified PCID instruction (INVPCID) can be used to invalidate
TLB entries of the specified Processor Context ID. See INVPCID in Volume 3.
•
Updates to the CR3 register cause the entire TLB to be invalidated except for global pages. The
CR3 register can be updated with the MOV CR3 instruction. CR3 is also updated during a task
switch, with the updated CR3 value read from the TSS of the new task. This behavior for CR3 is
modified by the PCID extension; See “Process Context Identifier” on page 158 for details.
•
The TLB_CONTROL field of a VMCB can request specific flushes of the TLB to occur when the
VMRUN instruction is executed on that VMCB. See “TLB Flush” on page 529.
Implicit Invalidations.  The following operations cause the entire TLB to be invalidated, including 
global pages:
•
Modifying the CR0.PG bit (paging enable).
•
Modifying the CR4.PAE bit (physical-address extensions), the CR4.PSE bit (page-size
extensions), or the CR4.PGE bit (page-global enable).
•
Entering SMM as a result of an SMI interrupt.
[AMD Public Use]
