288
Exceptions and Interrupts
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
8.10
Virtual Interrupts
The term virtual interrupts includes two classes of extensions to the interrupt-handling mechanism:
•
Virtual-8086 Mode Extensions (VME)—These allow virtual interrupts and interrupt redirection in
virtual-8086 mode. VME has no effect on protected-mode programs. 
•
Protected-Mode Virtual Interrupts (PVI)—These allow virtual interrupts in protected mode when
CPL=3. Interrupt redirection is not available in protected mode. PVI has no effect on virtual-8086-
mode programs. 
Because virtual-8086 mode is not supported in long mode, VME extensions are not supported in long 
mode. PVI extensions are, however, supported in long mode.
8.10.1  Virtual-8086 Mode Extensions
The virtual-8086-mode extensions (VME) enable performance enhancements for 8086 programs 
running as protected tasks in virtual-8086 mode. These extensions are enabled by setting CR4.VME 
(bit 0) to 1. The extensions enabled by CR4.VME are:
•
Virtualizing control and notification of maskable external interrupts with the EFLAGS VIF (bit
19) and VIP (bit 20) bits. 
•
Selective interception of software interrupts (INTn instructions) using the TSS interrupt
redirection bitmap (IRB). 
Background.  Legacy-8086 programs expect to have full access to the EFLAGS interrupt flag (IF) 
bit, allowing programs to enable and disable maskable external interrupts. When those programs run in 
virtual-8086 mode under a multitasking protected-mode environment, it can disrupt the operating 
system if programs enable or disable interrupts for their own purposes. This is particularly true if 
interrupts associated with one program can occur during execution of another program. For example, a 
program could request that an area of memory be copied to disk. System software could suspend the 
program before external hardware uses an interrupt to acknowledge that the block has been copied. 
System software could subsequently start a second program which enables interrupts. This second 
program could receive the external interrupt indicating that the memory block of the first program has 
been copied. If that were to happen, the second program would probably be unprepared to handle the 
interrupt properly.
Access to the IF bit must be managed by system software on a task-by-task basis to prevent corruption 
of system resources. In order to completely manage the IF bit, system software must be able to 
interrupt all instructions that can read or write the bit. These instructions include STI, CLI, PUSHF, 
POPF, INTn, and IRET. These instructions are part of an instruction class that is IOPL-sensitive. The 
processor takes a general-protection exception (#GP) whenever an IOPL-sensitive instruction is 
executed and the EFLAGS.IOPL field is less than the CPL. Because all virtual-8086 programs run at 
CPL=3, system software can interrupt all instructions that modify the IF bit by setting IOPL3.
System software maintains a virtual image of the IF bit for each virtual-8086 program by emulating 
the actions of IOPL-sensitive instructions that modify the IF bit. When an external maskable-interrupt 
[AMD Public Use]
