408
Software Debug and Performance Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Note that implicit supervisor-level accesses do not generate a bus lock trap, even when CPL is > 0.  An 
implicit supervisor-mode access is one that is considered a supervisor access regardless of the value of 
CPL. 
13.1.4  Single Stepping
Single-step breakpoints are enabled by setting the rFLAGS[TF] bit to 1. TF may be set by the IRET, 
POPF or SYSRET instructions, with an IRET executed by a debugger being the typical use case. 
When IRET sets TF, it causes a #DB exception to be taken immediately after the target of the IRET is 
executed, returning control to the debugger and thereby single-stepping the target instruction. Setting 
TF with a POPF instruction also causes a one-instruction delayed #DB exception. When TF is set by 
SYSRET however, a #DB exception is taken before the target instruction executes, hence SYSRET 
does not provide the single-stepping behavior of IRET. 
When a #DB exception occurs due to single stepping, the processor clears rFLAGS[TF] before 
entering the debug handler, so that the debug handler itself is not single stepped. The processor also 
sets DR6[BS] to 1, which indicates that the #DB exception occurred as a result of single stepping. The 
rFLAGS image pushed onto the debug-handler stack has the TF bit set, and single stepping resumes 
when a subsequent IRET pops the stack image into the rFLAGS register.
Single-step breakpoints have a higher priority than external interrupts. If an external interrupt occurs 
during single stepping, control is transferred to the #DB handler first, causing the rFLAGS[TF] bit to 
be cleared. Next, before the first instruction in the debug handler is executed, the processor transfers 
control to the pending-interrupt handler. This allows external interrupts to be handled outside of 
single-step mode.
The INTn, INT3, and INTO instructions clear the rFLAGS[TF] bit when they are executed. If a 
debugger is used to single-step software that contains these instructions, it must emulate them instead 
of executing them.
The single-step mechanism can also be set to single step only control transfers, rather than single step 
every instruction. See “Single Stepping Control Transfers” on page 410 for additional information.
13.1.5  Breakpoint Instruction (INT3)
The INT3 instruction, or the INTn instruction with an operand of 3, can be used to set breakpoints that 
transfer control to the breakpoint-exception (#BP) handler rather than the debug-exception handler. 
When a debugger uses the breakpoint instructions to set breakpoints, it does so by replacing the first 
bytes of an instruction with the breakpoint instruction. The debugger replaces the breakpoint 
instructions with the original-instruction bytes to clear the breakpoint.
INT3 is a single-byte instruction while INTn with an operand of 3 is a two-byte instruction. The 
instructions have slightly different effects on the breakpoint exception-handler stack. See “#BP—
Breakpoint Exception (Vector 3)” on page 249 for additional information on this exception.
[AMD Public Use]
