556
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
translation is allowed for the code page. The following table summarizes the behavior when GMET is 
enabled.
The EXITINFO1 field for the nested page fault contains the page fault error code describing attributes 
of the attempted translation that caused the fault. A GMET violation is not explicitly indicated with a 
separate bit. It is up to software to determine if it was NX based or GMET based by inspecting this 
error code along with the faulting page’s effective NX and U/S settings.1
15.25.14  Supervisor Shadow Stacks
The Supervisor Shadow Stack (SSS) feature is an extension to nested paging which allows a 
hypervisor to restrict which guest physical addresses may be used for a guest supervisor shadow stack. 
Supervisor shadow stack accesses made by the guest to pages not designated as SSS pages in the 
nested page tables result in a #VMEXIT(NPF).
Determining Support for SSS.  Support for the SSS feature is indicated by CPUID 
Fn8000_000A_EDX[19](SupervisorShadowStack)=1. 
Enabling SSS.  The SSS feature is enabled by setting bit 4 in VMCB offset 90h (See Table B-1. 
VMCB Layout, Control Area). The SSS feature can be enabled only if nested paging is enabled in the 
VMCB and the PAE and No Execute paging modes (EFER.NXE=1) are enabled in the host.
Attempting to execute a VMRUN with SSS enabled and nested paging disable result in a 
VMEXIT(INVALID). If the host is not legacy non-PAE mode or EFER.NXE=0, attempts to enable the 
SSS feature are silently ignored.
The SSS feature can be enabled regardless of whether the guest has enabled shadow stacks or not.
Designating SSS Pages.  When the SSS feature is enabled, the hypervisor indicates a page may be 
used for a supervisor shadow stack using following combination of nested page table bits:
•
NX=1 and U/S=0 in the final nested page table entry used to translate the address.
•
R/W=1 in all other nested non-leaf page table entries leading to the final nested page table entry.
Although is not enforced by the SSS feature, R/W should be 0 in the final nested page table entry in 
order to achieve the desired security functionality.
Table 15-21.
GMET Page Configuration 
nPT NX Bit
nPT U/S Bit
Guest
User-Mode Code
Guest
Supervisor-Mode Code
1
X
No Execute
No Execute
0
1
Execute
No Execute
0
0
Execute
Execute
1 The guest user/supervisor indication is normally provided in ExitInfo1, however on some im-
plementations a GMET erratum may require CPL to be read from the guest VMCB.
[AMD Public Use]
