Machine Check Architecture
301
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
9.3
Machine Check Architecture MSRs
The AMD64 Machine-Check Architecture defines the set of model-specific registers (MCA MSRs) 
used to log and report hardware errors. These registers are:
•
Global status and control registers:
-
Machine-check global-capabilities register (MCG_CAP)
-
Machine-check global-status register (MCG_STATUS)
-
Machine-check global-control register (MCG_CTL)
-
Machine-check exception configuration register (MCA_INTR_CFG)
•
One or more error-reporting register banks, each containing:
-
Machine-check control register (MCi_CTL)
-
Machine-check status register (MCi_STATUS)
-
Machine-check address register (MCi_ADDR)
-
At least one machine-check miscellaneous error-information register (MCi_MISC0)
Each error-reporting register bank is associated with a specific processor unit (or group of
processor units).
•
CPU Watchdog Timer register (CPU_WATCHDOG_TIMER)
The error-reporting registers retain their values through a warm reset. (A warm reset occurs while 
power to the processor is stable. This in contrast to a cold reset, which occurs during the application of 
power after a period of power loss.) This preservation of error information allows the platform 
firmware or other system-boot software to recover and report information associated with the error 
when the processor is forced into a shutdown state.
The RDMSR and WRMSR instructions are used to read and write the machine-check MSRs. See 
“Machine-Check MSRs” on page 729 for a listing of the machine-check MSR numbers and their reset 
values. The following sections describe each MCA MSR and its function.
9.3.1  Global Status and Control Registers
The global status and control MSRs are the MCG_CAP, MCG_STATUS, MCG_CTL and 
MCA_INTR_CFG registers. 
9.3.1.1  Machine-Check Global-Capabilities Register
Figure 9-1 shows the format of the machine-check global-capabilities register (MCG_CAP). 
MCG_CAP is a read-only register that specifies the machine-check mechanism capabilities supported 
by the processor implementation. 
[AMD Public Use]
