202
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
l — All loads and stores complete to memory for the serializing instruction before the subsequent
instruction fetch is issued.
m — A store (uc) does not pass a previous store (wc, wc+).
7.5
Buffering and Combining Memory Writes
7.5.1  Write Buffering
Writes to memory (main memory and caches) can be stored internally by the processor in write buffers 
(also known as store buffers) before actually writing the data into a memory location. System 
performance can be improved by buffering writes, as shown in the following examples:
•
When higher-priority memory transactions, such as reads, compete for memory access with writes,
writes can be delayed in favor of reads, which minimizes or eliminates an instruction-execution
stall due to a memory-operand read.
•
When the memory is busy, buffering writes while the memory is busy removes the writes from the
instruction-execution pipeline, which frees instruction-execution resources.
The processor manages the write buffer so that it is transparent to software. Memory accesses check 
the write buffer, and the processor completes writes into memory from the buffer in program order. 
Also, the processor completely empties the write buffer by writing the contents to memory as a result 
of performing any of the following operations:
•
SFENCE Instruction—Executing a store-fence (SFENCE) instruction forces all memory writes
before the SFENCE (in program order) to be written into memory (or, for WB type, the cache)
before memory writes that follow the SFENCE instruction. The memory-fence (MFENCE)
instruction has a similar effect, but it forces the ordering of loads in addition to stores.
•
Serializing Instructions—Executing a serializing instruction forces the processor to retire the
serializing instruction (complete both instruction execution and result writeback) before the next
instruction is fetched from memory.
•
I/O instructions—Before completing an I/O instruction, all previous reads and writes must be
written to memory, and the I/O instruction must complete before completing subsequent reads or
writes. Writes to I/O-address space (OUT instruction) are never buffered.
•
Locked Instructions—A locked instruction (an instruction executed using the LOCK prefix) or an
XCHG instruction (which is implicitly locked) must complete after all previous reads and writes
and before subsequent reads and writes. Locked writes are never buffered, although locked reads
and writes are cacheable.
•
Interrupts and Exceptions—Interrupts and exceptions, including virtualization intercepts
(#VMEXIT), are serializing events that force the processor to write all results from the write buffer
to memory before fetching the first instruction from the interrupt or exception service routine.
•
UC Memory Reads—UC memory reads are not reordered ahead of writes.
[AMD Public Use]
