Memory System
203
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Write buffers can behave similarly to write-combining buffers because multiple writes may be 
collected internally before transferring the data to caches or main memory. See the following section 
for a description of write combining. 
7.5.2  Write Combining
Write-combining memory uses a different buffering scheme than write buffering described above. 
Writes to write-combining (WC) memory can be combined internally by the processor in a buffer for 
more efficient transfer to main memory at a later time. For example, 16 doubleword writes to 
consecutive memory addresses can be combined in the WC buffers and transferred to main memory as 
a single burst operation rather than as individual memory writes. 
The following instructions perform writes to WC memory:
•
(V)MASKMOVDQU 
•
MASKMOVQ
•
(V)MOVNTDQ
•
MOVNTI
•
(V)MOVNTPD
•
(V)MOVNTPS
•
MOVNTQ
•
MOVNTSD
•
MOVNTSS
WC memory is not cacheable. A WC buffer writes its contents only to main memory.
The size and number of WC buffers available is implementation dependent. The processor assigns an 
address range to an empty WC buffer when a WC-memory write occurs. The size and alignment of this 
address range is equal to the buffer size. All subsequent writes to WC memory that fall within this 
address range can be stored by the processor in the WC-buffer entry until an event occurs that causes 
the processor to write the WC buffer to main memory. After the WC buffer is written to main memory, 
the processor can assign a new address range on a subsequent WC-memory write.
Writes to consecutive addresses in WC memory are not required for the processor to combine them. 
The processor combines any WC memory write that falls within the active-address range for a buffer. 
Multiple writes to the same address overwrite each other (in program order) until the WC buffer is 
written to main memory. 
It is possible for writes to proceed out of program order when WC memory is used. For example, a 
write to cacheable memory that follows a write to WC memory can be written into the cache before the 
WC buffer is written to main memory. For this reason, and the reasons listed in the previous paragraph, 
software that is sensitive to the order of memory writes should avoid using WC memory.
WC buffers are written to main memory under the same conditions as the write buffers, namely when:
•
Executing a store-fence (SFENCE) instruction.
[AMD Public Use]
