Secure Virtual Machine
579
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
processing. The exact mechanism is implementation-specific, but must be protected from access from 
non-privileged software running on other cores and from direct access by an external device.
When the doorbell is received in guest mode, hardware on the receiving core evaluates the vAPIC state 
in the vAPIC backing page for the currently running virtual processor and injects the interrupt into the 
guest as appropriate.
Doorbell Register.  The system programming interface to the doorbell mechanism is provided via an 
MSR. Sending a doorbell signal to a another core is initiated by writing the physical APIC ID 
corresponding to that core to the Doorbell Register (MSR C001_011Bh). The format of this register is 
shown in Figure 15-22 below.
Figure 15-22.
Doorbell Register, MSR C001_011Bh
Writing to this register causes a doorbell signal to be sent to the specified physical core. The serializing 
semantics of WRMSR are relaxed when writing to the Doorbell Register. Any attempt to read from 
this register results in a #GP.
Processing of Doorbell Signals.  A doorbell signal delivered to a running guest is recognized by the 
hardware regardless of whether it can be immediately injected into the guest as a virtual interrupt. On 
the next VMRUN, the virtual interrupt delivery mechanism evaluates the state of the IRR register of 
the guest’s vAPIC backing page to find the highest priority pending interrupt and injects it if interrupt 
masking and priority allow.
15.29.8.3  Additional VMRUN Handling
In addition to the normal VMRUN operations, the core re-evaluates the APIC state in the vAPIC 
backing page upon entry into the guest and processes pending interrupts as necessary. Specifically:
•
On VMRUN the interrupt state is evaluated and the highest priority pending interrupt indicated in 
the IRR is delivered if interrupt masking and priority allow
•
Any doorbell signals received during VMRUN processing are recognized immediately after 
entering the guest
•
When AVIC mode is enabled for a virtual processor, the V_IRQ, V_INTR_PRIO, 
V_INTR_VECTOR, and V_IGN_TPR fields in the VMCB are ignored.
15.29.9  AVIC Exit Codes
The AVIC architecture defines two new AVIC-related #VMEXIT events. These cases are described in 
the following sections. Assigned EXITCODE values are given in Table C-1 on page 756.
63
8
7
0
Reserved, MBZ
Physical APIC ID
[AMD Public Use]
