164
Page Translation and Protection
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
5.6.5  Supervisor-Mode Execution Prevention (CR4.SMEP) Bit
When supported and enabled, a page-fault exception (#PF) is generated if the processor attempts to 
fetch an instruction from a user page while running at CPL 0, 1, or 2.
Supervisor-mode execution prevention is enabled by setting the SMEP bit (bit 20) in the CR4 register 
to 1. Before setting this bit, system software must verify the processor supports the SMEP feature by 
checking the SMEP feature flag (CPUID Fn0000_0007_EBX[SMEP]_x0 = 1). 
For more information using the CPUID instruction see Section 3.3 “Processor Feature Identification” 
on page 71.
5.6.6  Supervisor-Mode Access Prevention(CR4.SMAP) Bit
When SMAP is supported and enabled, a page-fault exception (#PF) is generated if the processor 
attempts to read or write data from a user page and one of the following is true: 
•
The access is an implicit supervisor-mode access OR 
•
The access is made while running at CPL 0,1, or 2 and RFLAGS.AC=0. 
Some accesses are considered implicit supervisor-mode accesses. Implicit supervisor-mode accesses 
are subject to the SMAP check regardless of the value of RFLAGS.AC. An implicit supervisor-mode 
access is one that is considered a supervisor access regardless of the value of CPL.
Supervisor-mode access prevention is enabled by setting the SMAP bit (bit 21) in the CR4 register to 
1. Before setting this bit, system software must verify the processor supports the SMAP feature by 
checking the SMAP feature flag CPUID Fn0000_0007_EBX[SMAP]_x0 (bit 20) = 1.
Shadow stack accesses are not subject to the SMAP check. 
For more information on using the CPUID instruction see “Processor Feature Identification” on 
page 71.
5.6.7  Memory Protection Keys (MPK) Bit
The Memory Protection Key (MPK) feature provides a way for applications to impose page-based 
data access protections (read/write, read-only or no access), without requiring modification of page 
tables and subsequent TLB invalidations when the application changes protection domains.
When MPK is enabled (CR4.PKE=1), a protection key is located in bits 62:59 of final page table entry 
mapping each virtual address. This 4-bit protection key is used as an index (i) into the user-accessible 
PKRU register which contains 16 access-disable/write-disable (WDi/ADi) pairs. 
[AMD Public Use]
