Machine Check Architecture
311
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
-
For processor implementations that log errors for disabled reporting banks, status for an 
enabled error replaces status for a disabled error.
-
Status for a deferred error replaces status for a corrected error.
-
Status for an uncorrected error replaces status for a corrected or deferred error.
-
Status for an enabled uncorrected error is never replaced.
See Section 9.3.2.1 “MCA Overflow” on page 306 for more information on this field.
•
VAL—Bit 63. This bit is set to 1 by the processor if the contents of MCi_STATUS are valid. 
Software should clear the VAL bit after reading the MCi_STATUS register, otherwise a subsequent 
machine-check error sets the OVER bit as described above.
When a machine-check error occurs, the processor writes an error code into the appropriate 
MCi_STATUS register MCA error-code field. The MCi_STATUS[VAL] bit is set to 1, indicating that 
the MCi_STATUS register contents are valid.
MCA error-codes are used to report errors in the memory hierarchy, the system bus, and the system-
interconnection logic. Error-codes are divided into subfields that are used to describe the cause of an 
error. The information is implementation-specific. For further information, see the BIOS and Kernel 
Developer’s Guide (BKDG) or Processor Programming Reference Manual (PPR)   applicable to your 
product.
9.3.2.5  Machine-Check Address Registers
Each error-reporting register bank includes a machine-check address register (MCi_ADDR) that the 
processor uses to report the address or location associated with the logged error. The address field can 
hold a virtual (linear) address, a physical address, or a value indicating an internal physical location, 
depending on the type of error. For further information, see the documentation for particular 
implementations of the architecture. The contents of this register are valid only if the ADDRV bit in 
the corresponding MCi_STATUS register is set to 1.
9.3.2.6  Machine-Check Miscellaneous-Error Information Register 0 (MCi_MISC0)
Each error-reporting register bank includes the Machine-Check Miscellaneous 0 register that the 
processor uses to report additional error information.
In some implementations, the MCi_MISC0 register is used for error thresholding. Thresholding is a 
mechanism provided by hardware to:
•
count detected errors, and
•
(optionally) generate an APIC-based interrupt when a programmed number of errors has been 
counted.
Processor hardware counts detected errors and ensures that multiple error sources do not share the 
same thresholding register. Software can use corrected error counts to help predict which components 
might soon fail (begin generating uncorrectable errors) and schedule their replacement. 
Threshold counters increment for error sources that are enabled for logging. 
[AMD Public Use]
