460
Software Debug and Performance Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
LWP event ring buffer in memory and advances the ring buffer pointer. If the counter is not negative 
and the ModRM operand specifies a memory location, that location is not accessed.
The event record has an EventId of 1. The value in the register specified by vvvv (first operand) is 
stored in the Data2 field at bytes 23–16 (zero extended if the operand size is 32). The value in a register 
or memory location (second operand) is stored in the Data1 field at bytes 7–4. The immediate value 
(third operand) is truncated to 16 bits and stored in the Flags field at bytes 3–2. See Figure 13-30 on 
page 444.
If the ring buffer is not full or if LWP is running in continuous mode, the head pointer is advanced and 
the event counter is reset to the interval for the event (subject to randomization). If the ring buffer 
threshold is exceeded and threshold interrupts are enabled, an interrupt is signaled. If LWP is in 
continuous mode and the new head pointer equals the tail pointer, the MissedEvents counter is 
incremented to indicate that the buffer wrapped.
If the ring buffer is full and LWP is running in synchronized mode, the event record overwrites the last 
record in the buffer, the MissedEvents counter in the LWPCB is incremented, and the head pointer is 
not advanced.
LWPVAL generates an invalid opcode exception (#UD) if the machine is not in protected mode or if 
LWP is not available.
LWPVAL does nothing if LWP is not enabled or if the Programmed Value Sample event is not enabled 
in LWPCB.Flags. This allows LWPVAL instructions to be harmlessly ignored if profiling is turned off.
It is possible to execute LWPVAL when the CPL ≠ 3 or when SMM is active, but the system software 
must ensure that the memory operand (if present), the LWPCB, and the entire ring buffer are properly 
mapped into writable memory in order to avoid a #PF or #GP fault. Using LWPVAL in these situations 
is not recommended.
LWPVAL can be used by a program to perform value profiling. This is the technique of sampling the 
value of some program variable at a predetermined frequency. For example, a managed runtime might 
use LWPVAL to sample the value of the divisor for a frequently executed divide instruction in order to 
determine whether to generate specialized code for a common division. It might sample the target 
location of an indirect branch or call to see if one destination is more frequent than others. Since 
LWPVAL does not modify any registers or condition codes, it can be inserted harmlessly between any 
instructions.
Note
When LWPVAL completes (whether or not it stored an event record in the event ring buffer), it counts 
as an instruction retired. If the Instructions Retired event is active, this might cause that counter to 
become negative and immediately store an event record. If LWPVAL also stored an event record, the 
buffer will contain two records with the same instruction address (but different EventId values).
13.4.5.4  LWPINS—Insert User Event Record in LWP Ring Buffer
Inserts a record into the LWP event ring buffer in memory and advances the ring buffer pointer.
[AMD Public Use]
