156
Page Translation and Protection
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
If CR4.PAE=1 and PDE.PS=1, the physical-page size is 2 Mbytes.
See Table 5-1 on page 129 for a description of the relationship between the PS bit, PAE, physical-page 
sizes, and page-translation hierarchy.
Global Page (G) Bit.  Bit 8. This bit is only present in the lowest level of the page-translation 
hierarchy. It indicates the physical page is a global page. The TLB entry for a global page (G=1) is not 
invalidated when CR3 is loaded either explicitly by a MOV CRn instruction or implicitly during a task 
switch. Use of the G bit requires the page-global enable bit in CR4 to be set to 1 (CR4.PGE=1). See 
“Global Pages” on page 158 for more information on the global-page mechanism.
Available to Software (AVL) Bit.  These bits are not interpreted by the processor and are available for 
use by system software.
Page-Attribute Table (PAT) Bit.  This bit is only present in the lowest level of the page-translation 
hierarchy, as follows:
•
If the lowest level is a PTE (PDE.PS=0), PAT occupies bit 7. 
•
If the lowest level is a PDE (PDE.PS=1) or PDPE (PDPE.PS=1), PAT occupies bit 12. 
The PAT bit is the high-order bit of a 3-bit index into the PAT register (Figure 7-13 on page 227). The 
other two bits involved in forming the index are the PCD and PWT bits. Not all processors support the 
PAT bit by implementing the PAT registers. See “Page-Attribute Table Mechanism” on page 227 for a 
description of the PAT mechanism and how it is used.
Memory Protection Key (MPK) Bits.  Bits 62:59. When Memory Protection Keys are enabled 
(CR4.PKE=1), this 4-bit field selects the memory protection key for the physical page mapped by this 
entry. Ignored if memory protection keys are disabled (CR4.PKE=0). (See “Memory Protection Keys 
(MPK) Bit” on page 164 for a description of this mechanism.) 
No Execute (NX) Bit.  Bit 63. This bit is present in the translation-table entries defined for PAE 
paging, with the exception that the legacy-mode PDPE does not contain this bit. This bit is not 
supported by non-PAE paging.
The NX bit can only be set when the no-execute page-protection feature is enabled by setting 
EFER.NXE to 1 (see “Extended Feature Enable Register (EFER)” on page 55). If EFER.NXE=0, the 
NX bit is treated as reserved. In this case, a page-fault exception (#PF) occurs if the NX bit is not 
cleared to 0.
This bit controls the ability to execute code from all physical pages mapped by the table entry. For 
example, a page-map level-4 NX bit controls the ability to execute code from all 128M 
(512 512 512) physical pages it maps through the lower-level translation tables. When the NX bit 
is cleared to 0, code can be executed from the mapped physical pages. When the NX bit is set to 1, 
code cannot be executed from the mapped physical pages. See “No Execute (NX) Bit” on page 156 for 
a description of the no-execute page-protection mechanism.
[AMD Public Use]
