54
System Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
switching tasks using task gates, and Section 12.3.4 “Nesting Tasks,” on page 387 for information on 
task nesting.
Resume Flag (RF) Bit.  Bit 16. The RF bit, when set to 1, temporarily disables instruction breakpoint 
reporting to prevent repeated debug exceptions (#DB) from occurring. This allows an instruction 
which had been inhibited by an instruction-breakpoint debug exception to be restarted by the debug 
exception handler.
The processor clears the RF bit after every instruction is successfully executed, except when the
instruction is:
•
An IRET that sets the RF bit.
•
JMP, CALL, or INTn through a task gate.
In both of the above cases, RF is not cleared to 0 until the next instruction successfully executes.
When an exception occurs (or when a string instruction is interrupted), the processor normally sets 
RF=1 in the RFLAGS image saved on the interrupt stack. However, when a #DB exception occurs as a 
result of an instruction breakpoint, the processor clears the RF bit to 0 in the interrupt-stack RFLAGS 
image.
For instruction restart to work properly following an instruction breakpoint, the #DB exception 
handler must set RF to 1 in the interrupt-stack RFLAGS image. When an IRET is later executed to 
return to the instruction that caused the instruction-breakpoint #DB exception, the set RF bit (RF=1) is 
loaded from the interrupt-stack RFLAGS image. RF is not cleared by the processor until the 
instruction causing the #DB exception successfully executes.
Virtual-8086 Mode (VM) Bit.  Bit 17. Software sets the VM bit to 1 to enable virtual-8086 mode. 
Software clears the VM bit to 0 to disable virtual-8086 mode. System software can only change this bit 
using a task switch or an IRET. It cannot modify the bit using the POPFD instruction.
Alignment Check (AC) Bit.  Bit 18. Software enables automatic alignment checking by setting the 
AC bit to 1 when CR0.AM=1. Alignment checking can be disabled by clearing either AC or CR0.AM 
to 0. When automatic alignment checking is enabled and the current privilege-level (CPL) is 3 (least 
privileged), a memory reference to an unaligned operand causes an alignment-check exception (#AC).
When the supervisor mode access prevention feature is enabled (CR4.SMAP=1), certain supervisor-
mode data accesses to pages accessible by user mode are allowed only if RFLAGS.AC=1. See 
Section 5.6.6 “Supervisor-Mode Access Prevention(CR4.SMAP) Bit,” on page 164 for more 
information.
Virtual Interrupt (VIF) Bit.  Bit 19. The VIF bit is a virtual image of the RFLAGS.IF bit. It is enabled 
when either virtual-8086 mode extensions are enabled (CR4.VME=1) or protected-mode virtual 
interrupts are enabled (CR4.PVI=1), and the RFLAGS.IOPL field is less than 3. When enabled, 
instructions that ordinarily would modify the IF bit actually modify the VIF bit with no effect on the 
RFLAGS.IF bit.
[AMD Public Use]
