Secure Virtual Machine
563
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
15.28
Security Exception (#SX)
The Security Exception fault signals security-sensitive events that occur while executing the VMM, in 
the form of an exception so that the VMM may take appropriate action. (A VMM would typically 
intercept comparable sensitive events in the guest.) Currently, the only use of the #SX is to redirect 
external INITs into an exception so that the VMM may — among other possibilities — destroy 
sensitive information before re-issuing the INIT, this time without redirection. The INIT redirection is 
controlled by the VM_CR.R_INIT bit. (See “INIT Support” on page 535 for more details on INIT and 
#SX behavior). Note that INIT is gated by the Global Interrupt Flag (GIF), and so will be held pending 
if asserted while GIF is 0. When GIF transitions to 1, INIT will either take effect or be redirected to 
#SX, depending on the state of R_INIT.
The #SX exception dispatches to vector 30, and behaves like other fault-class exceptions such as 
General Protection Fault (#GP). The #SX exception pushes an error code. The only error code 
currently defined is 1, and indicates redirection of INIT has occurred.
The #SX exception is a contributory fault.
15.29
Advanced Virtual Interrupt Controller
The AMD Advanced Virtual Interrupt Controller (AVIC) is an important enhancement to AMD 
VirtualizationTM Technology (AMD-V). In a virtualized environment, AVIC presents to each guest a 
virtual interrupt controller that is compliant with the local Advanced Programmable Interrupt 
Controller (APIC) architecture. See Chapter 16, “Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller 
(APIC),” on page 627 for a detailed description of APIC.
15.29.1  Introduction
In a virtualized computer system, each guest operating system needs access to an interrupt controller to 
send and receive device and interprocessor interrupts. When there is no hardware acceleration, it falls 
to the virtual machine monitor (VMM) to intercept guest-initiated attempts to access the interrupt 
controller registers and provide direct emulation of the controller system programming interface 
allowing the guest to initiate and process interrupts. The VMM uses the underlying physical and 
virtual interrupt delivery mechanisms of the system to deliver interrupts from I/O devices and virtual 
processors to the target guest virtual processor and to handle any required end of interrupt processing. 
Given the high rate of device and interprocessor interrupt generation in certain scenarios, in particular 
on server-class systems, the emulation of a local APIC can be a significant burden for the VMM. The 
AVIC architecture addresses the overhead of guest interrupt processing in a virtualized environment 
by applying hardware acceleration to the following components of interrupt processing:
•
Providing a guest operating system access to performance-critical interrupt controller registers
•
Initiating intra- and inter-processor interrupts (IPIs) in and between virtual processors in a guest
Software-initiated Interrupts.  Modern operating systems use software interrupts (self-IPIs) to 
implement software event signaling, inter-process communication and the scheduling of deferred 
[AMD Public Use]
