542
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Multiprocessor Issues.  Device-originated memory requests are checked against the DEV at the 
point of entry to the system—the Northbridge to which the device is physically attached. Each 
Northbridge can have its own set of domains, device-to-domain mappings, and DEV tables (e.g., 
domain #2 on one node can encompass different devices, and can have different access rights than 
domain #2 on another node). Thus, the number of protection domains available to software can scale 
with the number of Northbridges in the system.
15.24.3  Access Checking
Memory Space Accesses.  When a memory-space read or write request is received on an external 
host bridge port, the host bridge maps the HyperTransport bus device ID to a protection domain 
number, which in turn selects the DEV defining the access permissions for the device (see 
Figure 15-6). The host bridge then checks the memory address against the DEV contents by indexing 
into the DEV with the PFN portion of the address (bits 39:12). The PFN is used as a bit index within 
the DEV. If the bit read from the DEV is set to 1, the host bridge inhibits the access by returning all 
ones for the data for a read request, or suppressing the store operation on a write request. A Master 
Abort error response will be returned to the requesting device.
Peer-to-peer memory accesses routed up to the host bridge are also subjected to checks against the 
DEV. Peer-to-peer transfers that may be occurring behind bridges are not checked.
DEV checks are applied before addresses are translated by the GART. The DEV table is never 
consulted by accesses originating in the CPU.
I/O Space Accesses.  The host bridge can be configured to reject all I/O space accesses from 
devices, by setting the IOSPE bit in the DEV_CR control register (see “DEV_CR Register” on 
page 545). I/O space peer-to-peer transfers behind bridges are not checked.
Config Space Accesses.  Major aspects of host bridge functionality are configured by means of 
control registers that are accessed through PCI configuration space. Because this is potentially 
accessible by means of device peer-to-peer transfers, the host bridge always blocks access to this space 
from anything other than the CPU.
[AMD Public Use]
