Secure Virtual Machine
557
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
SSS Access Checking.  When the SSS feature is enabled, guest supervisor shadow stack accesses 
are allowed only to physical pages designated   as SSS pages in the nested page tables. Note that 
supervisor shadow stack writes to SSS pages are allowed to complete even though R/W=0 in the final 
nested page table entry.
The following accesses to SSS pages are not allowed:
•
Supervisor shadow accesses made to non-SSS pages. These result in a #VMEXIT(NPF) with the
SS bit set in the EXITINFO1 error code. 
•
Attempting to execute code from an SSS page. This results in a #VMEXIT(NPF) the same as any
page with NX=1.
See Chapter 15.25.6, “Nested versus Guest Page Faults, Fault Ordering,” on page 551 for more 
information on EXITINFO1 error codes for nested page faults.
15.26
Security
SVM provides additional hardware support that is designed to facilitate the construction of trusted 
software systems. While the security features described in this section are orthogonal to SVM’s 
virtualization support (and are not required for processor virtualization), the two form building blocks 
for trusted systems.
SKINIT Instruction.  The SKINIT instruction and associated system support (the Trusted Platform 
Module or TPM) are designed to allow for verifiable startup of trusted software (such as a VMM), 
based on secure hash comparison.
Security Exception.  A security exception (#SX) is used to signal certain security-critical events.
15.27
Secure Startup with SKINIT
The SKINIT instruction is one of the keys to creating a “root of trust” starting with an initially 
untrusted operating mode. SKINIT reinitializes the processor to establish a secure execution 
environment for a software component called the secure loader (SL) and starts execution of the SL in a 
way that cannot be tampered with. SKINIT also copies the secure loader executable image to an 
external device, such as a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) for verification using unique bus 
transactions that preclude SKINIT operation from being emulated by software in a way that the TPM 
could not readily detect. (Detailed operation is described in Section 15.27.4.)
15.27.1  Secure Loader
A secure loader (SL) typically initializes SVM hardware mechanisms and related data structures, and 
initiates execution of a trusted piece of software such as a VMM (referred to as a Security Kernel, or 
SK, in this document), after first having validated the identity of that software.
SKINIT allows SVM protections to be reliably enabled after the system is already up and running in a 
non-trusted mode — there is no requirement to change the typical x86 platform boot process. 
[AMD Public Use]
