2
System-Programming Overview
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
1.1.1  Memory Addressing
The AMD64 architecture supports address relocation. To do this, several types of addresses are needed 
to completely describe memory organization. Specifically, four types of addresses are defined by the 
AMD64 architecture:
•
Logical addresses
•
Effective addresses, or segment offsets, which are a portion of the logical address.
•
Linear (virtual) addresses
•
Physical addresses
Logical Addresses.  A logical address is a reference into a segmented-address space. It is comprised 
of the segment selector and the effective address. Notationally, a logical address is represented as
Logical Address = Segment Selector : Offset
The segment selector specifies an entry in either the global or local descriptor table. The specified 
descriptor-table entry describes the segment location in virtual-address space, its size, and other 
characteristics. The effective address is used as an offset into the segment specified by the selector.
Logical addresses are often referred to as far pointers. Far pointers are used in software addressing 
when the segment reference must be explicit (i.e., a reference to a segment outside the current 
segment). 
Effective Addresses.  The offset into a memory segment is referred to as an effective address (see 
“Segmentation” on page 5 for a description of segmented memory). Effective addresses are formed by 
adding together elements comprising a base value, a scaled-index value, and a displacement value. 
The effective-address computation is represented by the equation
Effective Address = Base + (Scale x Index) + Displacement
The elements of an effective-address computation are defined as follows:
•
Base—A value stored in any general-purpose register.
•
Scale—A positive value of 1, 2, 4, or 8.
•
Index—A two’s-complement value stored in any general-purpose register.
•
Displacement—An 8-bit, 16-bit, or 32-bit two’s-complement value encoded as part of the 
instruction.
Effective addresses are often referred to as near pointers. A near pointer is used when the segment 
selector is known implicitly or when the flat-memory model is used.
Long mode defines a 64-bit effective-address length. If a processor implementation does not support 
the full 64-bit virtual-address space, the effective address must be in canonical form (see “Canonical 
Address Form” on page 4).
[AMD Public Use]
