Secure Virtual Machine
509
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
The next sequential instruction pointer (nRIP) is saved in the guest VMCB control area at location C8h 
on all #VMEXITs that are due to instruction intercepts, as defined in Section 15.9, as well as MSR and 
IOIO intercepts and exceptions caused by the INT3, INTO, and BOUND instructions. For all other 
intercepts, nRIP is reset to zero.
The nRIP is the RIP that would be pushed on the stack if the current instruction were subject to a trap-
style debug exception, if the intercepted instruction were to cause no change in control flow. If the 
intercepted instruction would have caused a change in control flow, the nRIP points to the next 
sequential instruction rather than the target instruction.
Some exceptions write special registers even when they are intercepted; see the individual descriptions 
in Section 15.12 for details.
Support for the NRIP save on #VMEXIT is indicated by CPUID Fn8000_000A_EDX[NRIPS]. See 
Section 3.3, “Processor Feature Identification,” on page 71 for more information on using the CPUID 
instruction.
15.7.2  Intercepts During IDT Interrupt Delivery
It is possible for an intercept to occur while the guest is attempting to deliver an exception or interrupt 
through the IDT (e.g., #PF because the VMM has paged out the guest’s exception stack). In some 
cases, such an intercept can result in the loss of information necessary for transparent resumption of 
the guest. In the case of an external interrupt, for example, the processor will already have performed 
an interrupt acknowledge cycle with the PIC or APIC to obtain the interrupt type and vector, and the 
interrupt is thus no longer pending. 
To recover from such situations, all intercepts indicate (in the EXITINTINFO field in the VMCB) 
whether they occurred during exception or interrupt delivery though the IDT. This mechanism allows 
the VMM to complete the intercepted interrupt delivery, even when it is no longer possible to recreate 
the event in question.
Figure 15-1.
EXITINTINFO
63
32 31
30
12
11
10
8
7
0
ERRORCODE
V
Reserved
EV
TYPE
VECTOR
Bits
Mnemonic
Description
63:32
ERRORCODE
Error Code
31
V
Valid
30:12
—
Reserved
11
EV
Error Code Valid
10:8
TYPE
Qualifies the guest exception or interrupt. Table 15-1 shows 
possible values returned and their corresponding interrupt or 
exception types. Values not indicated are unused and reserved.
7:0
VECTOR
8-bit IDT vector of the interrupt or exception.
[AMD Public Use]
