528
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
VMCB for another guest. If any VMCB fields (excluding explicitly uncached fields) have been 
modified, all clean bits that are undefined (within the scope of the hypervisor) must be cleared to zero.
Bit 31 is a special bit reserved for the host that the CPU will never use for a clean bit. 
The following are explicitly not cached and not represented by Clean bits: 
•
TLB_Control 
•
Interrupt shadow 
•
VMCB status fields (Exitcode, EXITINFO1, EXITINFO2, EXITINTINFO, Decode Assist, etc.) 
•
Event injection 
•
RFLAGS, RIP, RSP, RAX
15.16
TLB Control
TLB entries are tagged with Address Space Identifier (ASID) bits to distinguish different guest virtual 
address spaces when shadow page tables are used, or different guest physical address spaces when 
nested page tables are used. The VMM can choose a software strategy in which it keeps multiple 
shadow page tables, and/or multiple nested page tables in processors that support nested paging, up-to-
date; the VMM can allocate a different ASID for each shadow or nested page table. This allows 
switching to a new process in a guest under shadow paging (changing CR3 contents), or to a new guest 
under nested paging (changing nCR3 contents), without flushing the TLBs. (See Section 15.25 for a 
complete explanation of nested paging operation.)
With shadow paging, the VMM is responsible for setting up a shadow page table for each guest linear 
address space that maps it to system physical addresses. These are used as the active page tables in 
place of the guest OS's page tables. The VMM sets the CR3 field in the guest VMCB to point to the 
system physical address of the desired shadow page table. The VMM is responsible for updating the 
shadow page table when the guest changes its page table or paging control state, and the VMM updates 
the access and dirty bits of the guest page table.
The VMRUN instruction and #VMEXIT write the CR0, CR3, CR4 and EFER registers, but these 
writes do not flush the TLB. The VMM is responsible for explicitly invalidating any guest translations 
that may be affected by its actions. There are two mechanisms available for this described in the next 
two sections.
When running with SVM enabled, global page table entries (PTEs) are global only within an ASID, 
not across ASIDs.
Software Rule.  When the VMM changes a guest’s paging mode by changing entries in the guest’s 
VMCB, the VMM must ensure that the guest’s TLB entries are flushed from the TLB. The relevant 
VMCB state includes:
•
CR0—PG, WP, CD, NW.
•
CR3—Any bit.
[AMD Public Use]
