Software Debug and Performance Resources
405
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Instruction breakpoints and general-detect conditions have a lower interrupt-priority than the other 
breakpoint and single-stepping conditions (see “Priorities” on page 264). Data-breakpoint conditions 
on the previous instruction occur before an instruction-breakpoint condition on the next instruction. 
However, if instruction and data breakpoints can occur as a result of executing a single instruction, the 
instruction breakpoint occurs first (before the instruction is executed), followed by the data breakpoint 
(after the instruction is executed).
13.1.3.1  Instruction Breakpoints
Instruction breakpoints are set by loading a breakpoint-address register (DRn) with the desired 
instruction virtual-address, and then setting the corresponding DR7 fields as follows:
•
Ln or Gn is set to 1 to enable the breakpoint for either the local task or all tasks, respectively.
•
R/Wn is set to 00b to specify that the contents of DRn are to be compared only with the virtual 
address of the next instruction to be executed.
•
LENn must be set to 00b.
When a #DB exception occurs due to an instruction breakpoint-address in DRn, the corresponding Bn 
field in DR6 is set to 1 to indicate that a breakpoint condition occurred. The breakpoint occurs before 
the instruction is executed, and the breakpoint-instruction address is pushed onto the debug-handler 
stack. If multiple instruction breakpoints are set, the debug handler can use the Bn field to identify 
which register caused the breakpoint.
Returning from the debug handler causes the breakpoint instruction to be executed. Before returning 
from the debug handler, the rFLAGS[RF] bit should be set to 1 to prevent a re-occurrence of the #DB 
exception due to the instruction-breakpoint condition. The processor ignores instruction-breakpoint 
conditions when rFLAGS[RF] = 1, until after the next instruction (in this case, the breakpoint 
instruction) is executed. After the next instruction is executed, the processor clears rFLAGS[RF]. 
Table 13-2.
Breakpoint Location by Condition
Breakpoint Condition
Breakpoint Location
Instruction
Before Instruction is Executed
General Detect
Data Write Only
After Instruction is Executed1
Data Read or Data Write
I/O Read or I/O Write
Single Step1
After Instruction is Executed
Task Switch
Note:
1.
Repeated operations (REP prefix) can breakpoint between iterations.
[AMD Public Use]
