458
Software Debug and Performance Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
If the flush causes a #PF exception, LWP remains enabled with the old LWPCB still active. Note 
that the flush is done before LWP attempts to access the new LWPCB.
3. If the specified LWPCB address is 0, LWP is disabled and the execution of LLWPCB is complete.
4. The LWPCB address is non-zero. LLWPCB validates it as follows:
-
If any part of the LWPCB or the ring buffer is beyond the data segment limit, LLWPCB causes 
a #GP exception.
-
If the ring buffer size is below the implementation’s minimum ring buffer size, LLWPCB 
causes a #GP exception. 
-
While doing these checks, LWP reads and writes the LWPCB, which may cause a #PF 
exception. 
If any of these exceptions occurs, LLWPCB aborts and LWP is left disabled. Usually, the operating 
system will handle a #PF exception by making the memory available and returning to retry the 
LLWPCB instruction. The #GP exceptions indicate application programming errors.
5. LWP converts the LWPCB address and the ring buffer address to linear address form by adding 
the DS base address and stores the addresses internally. 
6. LWP examines the LWPCB.Flags field to determine which events should be enabled and whether 
threshold interrupts should be taken. It clears the bits for any features that are not available and 
stores the result back to LWPCB.Flags to inform the application of the actual LWP state.
7. For each event being enabled, LWP examines the EventIntervaln value and, if necessary, sets it to 
an implementation-defined minimum. (The minimum event interval for LWPVAL is zero.) It 
loads its internal counter for the event from the value in EventCountern. A zero or negative value 
in EventCountern means that the next event of that type will cause an event record to be stored. To 
count every jth event, a program should set EventIntervaln to j-1 and EventCountern to some 
starting value (where j-1 is a good initial count). If the counter value is larger than the interval, the 
first event record will be stored after a larger number of events than subsequent records.
8. LWP is started. The execution of LLWPCB is complete.
Notes
If none of the bits in the LWPCB.Flags specifies an available event, LLWPCB still enables LWP to 
allow the use of the LWPINS instruction. However, no other event records will be stored.
A program can temporarily disable LWP by executing SLWPCB to obtain the current LWPCB 
address, saving that value, and then executing LLWPCB with a register containing 0. It can later re-
enable LWP by executing LLWPCB with a register containing the saved address.
When LWP is enabled, it is typically an error to execute LLWPCB with the address of the active 
LWPCB. When the hardware flushes the existing LWP state into the LWPCB, it may overwrite fields 
that the application may have set to new LWP parameter values. The flushed values will then be loaded 
as LWP is restarted. To reuse an LWPCB, an application should stop LWP by passing a zero to 
LLWPCB, then prepare the LWPCB with new parameters and execute LLWPCB again to restart LWP.
[AMD Public Use]
