Segmented Virtual Memory
73
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
4
Segmented Virtual Memory
The legacy x86 architecture supports a segment-translation mechanism that allows system software to 
relocate and isolate instructions and data anywhere in the virtual-memory space. A segment is a 
contiguous block of memory within the linear address space. The size and location of a segment within 
the linear address space is arbitrary. Instructions and data can be assigned to one or more memory 
segments, each with its own protection characteristics. The processor hardware enforces the rules 
dictating whether one segment can access another segment.
The segmentation mechanism provides ten segment registers, each of which defines a single segment. 
Six of these registers (CS, DS, ES, FS, GS, and SS) define user segments. User segments hold 
software, data, and the stack and can be used by both application software and system software. The 
remaining four segment registers (GDT, LDT, IDT, and TR) define system segments. System 
segments contain data structures initialized and used only by system software. Segment registers 
contain a base address pointing to the starting location of a segment, a limit defining the segment size, 
and attributes defining the segment-protection characteristics.
Although segmentation provides a great deal of flexibility in relocating and protecting software and 
data, it is often more efficient to handle memory isolation and relocation with a combination of 
software and hardware paging support. For this reason, most modern system software bypasses the 
segmentation features. However, segmentation cannot be completely disabled, and an understanding 
of the segmentation mechanism is important to implementing long-mode system software.
In long mode, the effects of segmentation depend on whether the processor is running in compatibility 
mode or 64-bit mode:
•
In compatibility mode, segmentation functions just as it does in legacy mode, using legacy 16-bit
or 32-bit protected mode semantics. 
•
64-bit mode, segmentation is disabled, creating a flat 64-bit virtual-address space. As will be seen,
certain functions of some segment registers, particularly the system-segment registers, continue to
be used in 64-bit mode.
4.1
Real Mode Segmentation
After reset or power-up, the processor always initially enters real mode. Protected modes are entered 
from real mode.
As noted in “Real Addressing” on page 10, real mode (real-address mode), provides a physical-
memory space of 1 Mbyte. In this mode, a 20-bit physical address is determined by shifting a 16-bit 
segment selector to the left four bits and adding the 16-bit effective address. 
Each 64K segment (CS, DS, ES, FS, GS, SS) is aligned on 16-byte boundaries. The segment base is 
the lowest address in a given segment, and is equal to the segment selector * 16. The POP and MOV 
instructions can be used to load a (possibly) new segment selector into one of the segment registers. 
[AMD Public Use]
