Software Debug and Performance Resources
461
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
The record has an EventId of 255. The value in the register specified by vvvv (first operand) is stored 
in the Data2 field at bytes 23–16 (zero extended if the operand size is 32). The value in a register or 
memory location (second operand) is stored in the Data1 field at bytes 7–4. The immediate value (third 
operand) is truncated to 16 bits and stored in the Flags field at bytes 3–2. See Figure 13-36 on 
page 451.
If the ring buffer is not full or if LWP is running in continuous mode, the head pointer is advanced and 
the CF flag is cleared. If the ring buffer threshold is exceeded and threshold interrupts are enabled, an 
interrupt is signaled. If LWP is in continuous mode and the new head pointer equals the tail pointer, the 
MissedEvents counter is incremented to indicate that the buffer wrapped.
If the ring buffer is full and LWP is running in synchronized mode, the event record overwrites the last 
record in the buffer, the MissedEvents counter in the LWPCB is incremented, the head pointer is not 
advanced, and the CF flag is set.
LWPINS generates an invalid opcode exception (#UD) if the machine is not in protected mode or if 
LWP is not available.
LWPINS simply clears CF if LWP is not enabled. This allows LWPINS instructions to be harmlessly 
ignored if profiling is turned off.
It is possible to execute LWPINS when the CPL ≠ 3 or when SMM is active, but the system software 
must ensure that the memory operand (if present), the LWPCB, and the entire ring buffer are properly 
mapped into writable memory in order to avoid a #PF or #GP fault. Using LWPINS in these situations 
is not recommended.
LWPINS can be used by a program to mark significant events in the ring buffer as they occur. For 
instance, a program might capture information on changes in the process’ address space such as library 
loads and unloads, or changes in the execution environment such as a change in the state of a user-
mode thread of control.
Note that when the LWPINS instruction finishes writing a event record in the event ring buffer, it 
counts as an instruction retired. If the Instructions Retired event is active, this might cause that counter 
to become negative and immediately store another event record with the same instruction address (but 
different EventId values).
13.4.6  LWP Control Block
An application uses the LWP Control Block (LWPCB) to specify the details of Lightweight Profiling 
operation. It is an interactive region of memory in which some fields are controlled and modified by 
the LWP hardware and others are controlled and modified by the software that processes the LWP 
event records.
Most of the fields in the LWPCB are constant for the duration of a LWP session (the time between 
enabling LWP and disabling it). This means that they are loaded into the LWP hardware when it is 
enabled, and may be periodically reloaded from the same location as needed. The contents of the 
[AMD Public Use]
