Exceptions and Interrupts
261
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Program Restart. #CP is a fault-type exception. In most cases, the saved instruction pointer points to 
the instruction that caused the #CP. See Section “Exceptions During a Task Switch” on page 262 for a 
description of what can happen if this exception occurs during a task switch.
8.2.21  #HV—Hypervisor Injection Exception (Vector 28)
The #HV exception may be injected by the hypervisor into a secure guest VM to notify the VM of 
pending events. See Section 15.36.16 for details.
8.2.22  #VC—VMM Communication Exception (Vector 29)
The #VC exception is generated when certain events occur inside a secure guest VM. See 
Section 15.35.5 for more details.
8.2.23  #SX—Security Exception (Vector 30)
The #SX exception is generated by security-sensitive events under SVM. See Section 15.28 for 
details.
8.2.24  User-Defined Interrupts (Vectors 32–255)
User-defined interrupts can be initiated either by system logic or software. They occur when:
•
System logic signals an external interrupt request to the processor. The signaling mechanism and
the method of communicating the interrupt vector to the processor are implementation dependent.
•
Software executes an INTn instruction. The INTn instruction operand provides the interrupt vector
number.
Both methods can be used to initiate an interrupt into vectors 0 through 255. However, because vectors 
0 through 31 are defined or reserved by the AMD64 architecture, software should not use vectors in 
this range for purposes other than their defined use.
Error Code Returned.  None.
Program Restart.  The saved instruction pointer depends on the interrupt source:
•
External interrupts are recognized on instruction boundaries. The saved instruction pointer points
to the instruction immediately following the boundary where the external interrupt was
recognized.
•
If the interrupt occurs as a result of executing the INTn instruction, the saved instruction pointer
points to the instruction after the INTn.
Masking.  The ability to mask user-defined interrupts depends on the interrupt source:
•
External interrupts can be masked using the RFLAGS.IF bit. Setting RFLAGS.IF to 1 enables
external interrupts, while clearing RFLAGS.IF to 0 inhibits them.
•
Software interrupts (initiated by the INTn instruction) cannot be disabled.
[AMD Public Use]
