Exceptions and Interrupts
277
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
•
The interrupt handler has a lower privilege (DPL=3) than the currently-running software (CPL=2).
Transitions from more-privileged software to less-privileged software are not allowed, so this
privilege check fails as well. 
Although both privilege checks fail, only one such failure is required to deny access to the interrupt 
handler.
8.7.5  Returning From Interrupt Procedures
A return to an interrupted program should be performed using the IRET instruction. An IRET is a far 
return to a different code segment, with or without a change in privilege level. The actions of an IRET 
in both cases are described in the following sections.
IRET, Same Privilege.  Before performing the IRET, the stack pointer must point to the return EIP. If 
there was an error code pushed onto the stack as a result of the exception or interrupt, that error code 
should have been popped off the stack earlier by the handler. The IRET reverses the actions of the 
interrupt mechanism:
1. Pops the return pointer off of the stack, loading both the CS register and EIP register (RIP[31:0])
with the saved values. The return code-segment RPL is read by the processor from the CS value
stored on the stack to determine that an equal-privilege control transfer is occurring.
2. Pops the saved EFLAGS image off of the stack and into the EFLAGS register.
3. Transfers control to the return program at the target CS:EIP.
IRET, Less Privilege.  If an IRET changes privilege levels, the return program must be at a lower 
privilege than the interrupt handler. The IRET in this case causes a stack switch to occur:
1. The return pointer is popped off of the stack, loading both the CS register and EIP register
(RIP[31:0]) with the saved values. The return code-segment RPL is read by the processor from
the CS value stored on the stack to determine that a lower-privilege control transfer is occurring.
2. The saved EFLAGS image is popped off of the stack and loaded into the EFLAGS register.
3. The return-program stack pointer is popped off of the stack, loading both the SS register and ESP
register (RSP[31:0]) with the saved values.
4. Control is transferred to the return program at the target CS:EIP.
8.7.6  Shadow Stack Support for Interrupts and Exceptions
The operation of the shadow stack for an interrupt control transfer depends whether or not the interrupt 
handler runs at the same privilege or at a higher privilege level than the CPL when the interrupt or 
exception occurred.
Interrupt Control Transfer to Same Privilege Level.  When a control transfer to a interrupt handler 
at the same privilege occurs, and the shadow stack feature is enabled for the current CPL, the processor 
pushes the interrupted procedure's CS and LIP (CS.base + EIP) onto the current shadow stack. 
[AMD Public Use]
