System Instructions
179
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
RDTSCP Instruction.  The read time-stamp counter and processor ID instruction, RDTSCP, is used 
to read the model-specific time-stamp counter (TSC) register and the low 32 bits of the TSC_AUX 
register (MSR C000_0103h).
6.3
Segment Register and Descriptor Register Access
The AMD64 architecture supports the legacy instructions that load and store segment registers and 
descriptor registers. In some cases the instruction capabilities are expanded to support long mode.
6.3.1  Accessing Segment Registers
MOV, POP, and PUSH Instructions.  The MOV and POP instructions can be used to load a selector 
into a segment register from a general-purpose register or memory (MOV) or from the stack (POP). 
Any segment register, except the CS register, can be loaded with the MOV and POP instructions. The 
CS register must be loaded with a far-transfer instruction.
All segment register selectors can be stored in a general-purpose register or memory using the MOV 
instruction or pushed onto the stack using the PUSH instruction.
When a selector is loaded into a segment register, the processor automatically loads the corresponding 
descriptor-table entry into the hidden portion of the selector register. The hidden portion contains the 
base address, limit, and segment attributes.
Segment-load and segment-store instructions work normally in 64-bit mode. The appropriate entry is 
read from the system descriptor table (GDT or LDT) and is loaded into the hidden portion of the 
segment descriptor register. However, the contents of data-segment and stack-segment descriptor 
registers are ignored, except in the case of the FS and GS segment-register base fields—see “FS and 
GS Registers in 64-Bit Mode” on page 80 for more information.
The ability to use segment-load instructions allows a 64-bit operating system to set up segment 
registers for a compatibility-mode application before switching to compatibility mode.
6.3.2  Accessing Segment Register Hidden State
WRMSR and RDMSR Instructions.  The base address field of the hidden state of the FS and GS 
registers are mapped to MSRs and may be read and written by privileged software when running in 64-
bit mode.
RDFSBASE, RDGSBASE, WRFSBASE, and WRGSBASE Instructions.  When supported and 
enabled, these instructions allow software running at any privilege level to read and write the base 
address field of the hidden state of the FS and GS segment registers. These instructions are only 
defined in 64-bit mode.
6.3.3  Accessing Descriptor-Table Registers
LGDT and LIDT Instructions.  The load GDTR (LGDT) and load IDTR (LIDT) instructions load a 
pseudo-descriptor from memory into the GDTR or IDTR registers, respectively. 
[AMD Public Use]
