636
Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC)
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
Trigger Mode (TGM)—Bit 15. Specifies how interrupts to the local APIC are triggered. The TGM
bit is set to 1 when the interrupt is level-sensitive. It is cleared to 0 when the interrupt is edge-
triggered. When the message type is SMI or NMI, the trigger mode is edge triggered.
•
Mask (M)—Bit 16. When the M bit is set to 1, reception of the interrupt is disabled. When the M
bit is cleared to 0, reception of the interrupt is enabled.
•
Timer Mode (TMM)—Bit 17. Specifies the timer mode for the APIC Timer interrupt. The TMM bit
set to 1 indicates periodic timer interrupts. The TMM bit cleared to 0 indicates one-shot operation.
16.4.1  APIC Timer Interrupt
The APIC timer is a programmable 32-bit counter used by software to time operations or events. The 
timer can operate in two modes, periodic and one-shot, under the control of bit 17 (Timer Mode) in 
APIC Timer Local Vector Table Register (see Figure 16-8). In both modes, the APIC timer is set to a 
programmable initial value and starts to decrement at a programmable clock rate. When the Initial 
Count Register is written to a non-zero value, the APIC timer is initialized to the value just written and 
starts decrementing. When the Initial Count Register is written to zero, the APIC timer is initialized to 
zero and stops decrementing. In one-shot mode, the APIC timer stops counting when the timer reaches 
zero. In periodic mode, the APIC timer is initialized again when it reaches zero, and it starts to 
decrement again. Whenever the timer value is decremented to zero, an APIC timer interrupt is 
generated under the control of bit 16 (Mask) in the APIC Timer Local Vector Table Register.
To avoid race conditions, software should initialize the Divide Configuration Register and the Timer 
Local Vector Table Register prior to writing the Initial Count Register to start the timer.
Figure 16-8.
APIC Timer Local Vector Table Register (APIC Offset 320h)
Three APIC registers are defined for the APIC timer function:
•
Current Count Register (CCR) is the actual APIC timer. Whenever the ICR is written to a non-zero
value, or when the CCR reaches zero while in periodic mode, it is initialized to a start count loaded
from the ICR and then decrements. The APIC timer interrupt is generated when the CCR value
reaches zero. The counting rate is controlled by the DCR. See Figure 16-9. 
•
Initial Count Register (ICR) provides the initial value for the APIC timer. See Table 16-10.
•
Divide Configuration Register (DCR) controls the counting rate of the APIC timer by dividing the
CPU core clock by a programmable amount. See Figure 16-11. For the specific details on the
implementation of the APIC timer base clock rate, see the BIOS and Kernel Developer’s Guide
(BKDG) or Processor Programming Reference Manual (PPR)  applicable to your product.
31
18 17 16 15
13 12 11
8
7
0
Reserved
TMM
M
Reserved
DS
Reserved
VEC
[AMD Public Use]
