Exceptions and Interrupts
291
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
•
When set to 1, the INTn instruction behaves as if the VME extensions are not enabled. The
interrupt is directed through the IDT to a protected-mode interrupt handler if IOPL=3. If IOPL<3,
the INTn causes a #GP exception.
•
When cleared to 0, the INTn instruction is directed through the IVT for the virtual-8086 program
to the corresponding virtual-8086 interrupt handler.
Only software interrupts can be redirected using the IRB mechanism. External interrupts are 
asynchronous events that occur outside the context of a virtual-8086 program. Therefore, external 
interrupts require system-software intervention to determine the appropriate context for the interrupt. 
The VME extensions described in Section “VIF and VIP Extensions for External Interrupts” on 
page 289 are provided to assist system software with external-interrupt intervention. 
8.10.2  Protected Mode Virtual Interrupts
The protected-mode virtual-interrupt (PVI) bit in CR4 enables support for interrupt virtualization in 
protected mode. When enabled, the processor maintains program-specific VIF and VIP bits similar to 
the manner defined by the virtual-8086 mode extensions (VME). However, unlike VME, only the STI 
and CLI instructions are affected by the PVI extension. When a program is running at CPL=3, it can 
use STI and CLI to set and clear its copy of the VIF flag without causing a general-protection 
exception. The last section of Table 8-12 on page 292 describes the behavior of instructions that 
modify the IF bit when PVI extensions are enabled.
The interrupt redirection bitmap (IRB) defined by the VME extensions is not supported by the PVI 
extensions.
8.10.3  Effect of Instructions that Modify EFLAGS.IF
Table 8-12 on page 292 shows how the behavior of instructions that modify the IF bit are affected by 
the VME and PVI extensions. The table columns specify the following:
•
Operating Mode—the processor mode in effect when the instruction is executed.
•
Instruction—the IF-modifying instruction.
•
IOPL—the value of the EFLAGS.IOPL field.
•
VIP—the value of the EFLAGS.VIP bit.
•
#GP—indicates whether the conditions in the first four columns cause a general-protection
exception (#GP) to occur.
•
Effect on IF Bit—indicates the effect the conditions in the first four columns have on the
EFLAGS.IF bit and the image of EFLAGS.IF on the stack.
•
Effect on VIF Bit—indicates the effect the conditions in the first four columns have on the
EFLAGS.VIF bit and the image of EFLAGS.VIF on the stack.
[AMD Public Use]
