x86 and AMD64 Architecture Differences
27
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Data-Segment Descriptors.  The following differences exist for data-segment descriptors in 64-bit 
mode only:
•
The DS, ES, and SS descriptor base-address fields are ignored by the processor.
•
The FS and GS descriptor base-address fields are expanded to 64 bits and used in effective-address
calculations. The 64 bits of base address are mapped to model-specific registers (MSRs), and can
only be loaded using the WRMSR instruction.
•
The limit fields and attribute fields of all data-segment descriptors (DS, ES, FS, GS, and SS) are
ignored by the processor.
In compatibility mode, the processor treats data-segment descriptors as it does in legacy mode. 
Compatibility mode ignores the high 32 bits of base address in the FS and GS segment descriptors 
when calculating an effective address.
System-Segment Descriptors.  In 64-bit mode only, The LDT and TSS system-segment descriptor 
formats are expanded by 64 bits, allowing them to hold 64-bit base addresses. LLDT and LTR 
instructions can be used to load these descriptors into the LDTR and TR registers, respectively, from 
64-bit mode. 
In compatibility mode and legacy mode, the formats of the LDT and TSS system-segment descriptors 
are unchanged. Also, unlike code-segment and data-segment descriptors, system-segment descriptor 
limits are checked by the processor in long mode.
Some legacy mode LDT and TSS type-field encodings are illegal in long mode (both compatibility 
mode and 64-bit mode), and others are redefined to new types. See “System Descriptors” on page 99 
for additional information.
Gate Descriptors.  The following differences exist between gate descriptors in long mode (both 
compatibility mode and 64-bit mode) and in legacy mode:
•
In long mode, all 32-bit gate descriptors are redefined as 64-bit gate descriptors, and are expanded
to hold 64-bit offsets. The length of a gate descriptor in long mode is therefore 128 bits (16 bytes),
versus the 64 bits (8 bytes) in legacy mode.
•
Some type-field encodings are illegal in long mode, and others are redefined to new types. See
“Gate Descriptors” on page 101 for additional information.
•
The interrupt-gate and trap-gate descriptors define a new field, called the interrupt-stack table
(IST) field.
2.3
Protection Checks
The AMD64 architecture makes the following changes to the protection mechanism in long mode:
•
The page-protection-check mechanism is expanded in long mode to include the U/S and R/W
protection bits stored in the PML5, PML4 and PDP entries.
•
Several system-segment types and gate-descriptor types that are legal in legacy mode are illegal in
long mode (compatibility mode and 64-bit mode) and fail type checks when used in long mode.
[AMD Public Use]
