Page Translation and Protection
161
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Use of Cached Entries When Reporting a Page Fault Exception.  On current AMD64 
processors, when any type of page fault exception is encountered by the MMU, any cached upper-
level entries that lead to the faulting entry are flushed (along with the TLB entry, if already cached) and 
the table walk is repeated to confirm the page fault using the table entries in memory. This is done 
because a table entry is allowed to be upgraded (by marking it as present, or by removing its write, 
execute or supervisor restrictions) without explicitly maintaining TLB coherency. Such an upgrade 
will be found when the table is re-walked, which resolves the fault. If the fault is confirmed on the re-
walk however, a page fault exception is reported, and upper level entries that may have been cached on 
the re-walk are flushed. 
Handling of D-Bit Updates.  When the processor needs to set the D bit in the PTE for a TLB entry 
that is already marked as writable at all cached TLB levels, the table walk that is performed to access 
the PTE in memory may use cached upper level table entries. This differs from the fault situation 
previously described, in which cached entries aren’t used to confirm the fault during the table walk. 
Invalidation of Cached Upper-level Entries by INVLPG.  The effect of INVLPG on TLB caching 
of upper-level page table entries is controlled by EFER[TCE] on processors that support the 
translation cache extension feature. If EFER[TCE] is 0, or if the processor does not support the 
translation cache extension feature, an INVLPG will flush all upper-level page table entries in the TLB 
as well as the target PTE. If EFER[TCE] is 1, INVLPG will flush only those upper-level entries that 
lead to the target PTE, along with the target PTE itself. INVLPGA may flush all upper-level entries 
regardless of the state of TCE. For further details, see Section 3.1.7 “Extended Feature Enable 
Register (EFER)” on page 55.
Handling of PDPT Entries in PAE Mode.  When 32-bit PAE mode is enabled on AMD64 processors 
(CR4.PAE is set to 1) a third level of the address translation table hierarchy, the page directory pointer 
table (PDPT), is enabled. This table contains four entries. On older AMD64 processors, in native 
mode, these four entries are unconditionally loaded into the table walk cache whenever CR3 is written 
with the PDPT base address, and remain locked in. At this point they are also checked for reserved bit 
violations, and if such violations are present a general-protection exception (#GP) occurs.
Under SVM, however, when the processor is in guest mode with PAE enabled, the guest PDPT entries 
are not cached or validated at this point, but instead are loaded and checked on demand in the normal 
course of address translation, just like page directory and page table entries. Any reserved bit 
violations are detected at the point of use, and result in a page-fault (#PF) exception rather than a 
general-protection (#GP) exception. The cached PDPT entries are subject to displacement from the 
table walk cache and reloading from the PDPT, hence software must assume that the PDPT entries 
may be read by the processor at any point while those tables are active. Modern AMD processors 
implement this same behavior in native mode as well, rather than pre-loading the PDPT entries. 
5.6
Page-Protection Checks
The AMD64 architecture provides the following forms of page-level memory protection: 
[AMD Public Use]
