Segmented Virtual Memory
123
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
4.12.2  Data Limit Checks in 64-bit Mode
In 64-bit mode, data reads and writes are not normally checked for segment-limit violations. When 
EFER.LMSLE = 1, reads and writes in 64-bit mode at CPL > 0, using the DS, ES, FS, or SS segments, 
have a segment-limit check applied.
This limit-check uses the 32-bit segment-limit to find the maximum allowable address in the top 4GB 
of the 64-bit virtual (linear) address space.
This segment-limit check does not apply to accesses through the GS segment, or to code reads. If the 
DS, ES, FS, or SS segment is null or expand-down, the effect of the limit check is undefined. Data 
segment limit checking in 64-bit mode is not supported by all processor implementations and has been 
deprecated. If CPUID Fn8000_0008_EBX[EferLmlseUnsupported](bit 20) = 1, 64-bit mode segment 
limit checking is not supported and attempting to enable this feature by setting EFER.LMSLE =1 will 
result in a #GP exception.
4.13
Type Checks
Type checks prevent software from using descriptors in invalid ways. Failing a type check results in an 
exception. Type checks are performed using five bits from the descriptor entry: the S bit and the 4-bit 
Type field. Together, these five bits are used to specify the descriptor type (code, data, segment, or 
gate) and its access characteristics. See “Legacy Segment Descriptors” on page 88 for a detailed 
description of the S bit and Type-field encodings. Type checks are performed by the processor in 
compatibility mode as well as legacy mode. Limited type checks are performed in 64-bit mode.
4.13.1  Type Checks in Legacy and Compatibility Modes
The type checks performed in legacy mode and compatibility mode are listed in the following sections.
Descriptor-Table Register Loads.  Loads into the LDTR and TR descriptor-table registers are 
checked for the appropriate system-segment type. The LDTR can only be loaded with an LDT 
descriptor, and the TR only with a TSS descriptor. The checks are performed during any action that 
causes these registers to be loaded. This includes execution of the LLDT and LTR instructions and 
during task switches.
Segment Register Loads.  The following restrictions are placed on the segment-descriptor types that 
can be loaded into the six user segment registers:
•
Only code segments can be loaded into the CS register.
•
Only writable data segments can be loaded into the SS register.
Table 4-8.
Segment Limit Checks in 64-Bit Mode
Memory Address
Effect of Limit Check
Linear Address £ (0FFFFFFFF_00000000h + 32-bit Limit)
Access OK.
Linear Address > (0FFFFFFFF_00000000h + 32-bit Limit)
Exception (#GP or #SS)
[AMD Public Use]
