System-Programming Overview
19
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
interrupt handlers. System software must initialize the global-descriptor and interrupt-descriptor 
tables, while use of the local-descriptor table is optional. See “Descriptor Tables” on page 82 for 
more information.
•
Task-State Segment—The task-state segment is a special segment for holding processor-state 
information for a specific program, or task. It also contains the stack pointers used when switching 
to more-privileged programs. The hardware multitasking mechanism uses the state information in 
the segment when suspending and resuming a task. Calls and interrupts that switch stacks cause 
the stack pointers to be read from the task-state segment. System software must create at least one 
task-state segment, even if hardware multitasking is not used. See “Legacy Task-State Segment” 
on page 372, and “64-Bit Task State Segment” on page 376 for details.
•
Page-Translation Tables—Use of page translation is optional in protected mode, but it is required 
in long mode. A four-level page-translation data structure is provided to allow long-mode 
operating systems to translate a 64-bit virtual-address space into a 52-bit physical-address space. 
Legacy protected mode can use two- or three-level page-translation data structures. See “Page 
Translation Overview” on page 127 for more information on page translation.
1.6
Interrupts
The AMD64 architecture provides a mechanism for the processor to automatically suspend (interrupt) 
software execution and transfer control to an interrupt handler when an interrupt or exception occurs. 
An interrupt handler is privileged software designed to identify and respond to the cause of an 
interrupt or exception, and return control back to the interrupted software. Interrupts can be caused 
when system hardware signals an interrupt condition using one of the external-interrupt signals on the 
processor. Interrupts can also be caused by software that executes an interrupt instruction. Exceptions 
occur when the processor detects an abnormal condition as a result of executing an instruction. The 
term “interrupts” as used throughout this volume includes both interrupts and exceptions when the 
distinction is unnecessary.
System software not only sets up the interrupt handlers, but it must also create and initialize the data 
structures the processor uses to execute an interrupt handler when an interrupt occurs. The data 
structures include the code-segment descriptors for the interrupt-handler software and any data-
segment descriptors for data and stack accesses. Interrupt-gate descriptors must also be supplied. 
Interrupt gates point to interrupt-handler code-segment descriptors, and the entry point in an interrupt 
handler. Interrupt gates are stored in the interrupt-descriptor table. The code-segment and data-
segment descriptors are stored in the global-descriptor table and, optionally, the local-descriptor table. 
When an interrupt occurs, the processor uses the interrupt vector to find the appropriate interrupt gate 
in the interrupt-descriptor table. The gate points to the interrupt-handler code segment and entry point, 
and the processor transfers control to that location. Before invoking the interrupt handler, the 
processor saves information required to return to the interrupted program. For details on how the 
processor transfers control to interrupt handlers, see “Legacy Protected-Mode Interrupt Control 
Transfers” on page 270, and “Long-Mode Interrupt Control Transfers” on page 281. 
[AMD Public Use]
