370
Task Management
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
#GP exception occurs when an attempt is made to access beyond the TSS limit. No check for the
larger limit is performed during the task switch.
•
Type—Four system-descriptor types are defined as TSS types, as shown in Table 4-5 on page 94.
Bit 9 is used as the descriptor busy bit (B). This bit indicates that the task is busy when set to 1, and
available when cleared to 0. Busy tasks are the currently running task and any previous (outer)
tasks in a nested-task hierarchy. Task recursion is not supported, and a #GP exception occurs if an
attempt is made to transfer control to a busy task. See “Nesting Tasks” on page 387 for additional
information.
In long mode, the 32-bit TSS types (available and busy) are redefined as 64-bit TSS types, and
only 64-bit TSS descriptors can be used. Loading the task register with an available 64-bit TSS
causes the processor to change the TSS descriptor type to indicate a busy 64-bit TSS. Because long
mode does not support task switching, the TSS-descriptor busy bit is never cleared by the
processor to indicate an available 64-bit TSS.
Sixteen-bit TSS types are illegal in long mode. A general-protection exception (#GP) occurs if a
reference is made to a 16-bit TSS.
12.2.3  Task Register
The task register (TR) points to the TSS location in memory, defines its size, and specifies its 
attributes. As with the other descriptor-table registers, the TR has two portions. A visible portion holds 
the TSS selector, and a hidden portion holds the TSS descriptor. When the TSS selector is loaded into 
the TR, the processor automatically loads the TSS descriptor from the GDT into the hidden portion of 
the TR. 
The TR is loaded with a new selector using the LTR instruction. The TR is also loaded during a task 
switch, as described in “Switching Tasks” on page 380.
Figure 12-3 shows the format of the TR in legacy mode.
Figure 12-3.
TR Format, Legacy Mode
Figure 12-4 shows the format of the TR in long mode (both compatibility mode and 64-bit mode).
Hidden From Software
513-221.eps
32-Bit Descriptor-Table Limit
32-Bit Descriptor-Table Base Address
Descriptor Attributes
Selector
[AMD Public Use]
