Exceptions and Interrupts
253
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
8.2.11  #TS—Invalid-TSS Exception (Vector 10)
A #TS exception occurs when an invalid reference is made to a segment selector as part of a task 
switch. A #TS also occurs during a privilege-changing control transfer (through a call gate or an 
interrupt gate), if a reference is made to an invalid stack-segment selector located in the TSS. Table 8-4 
lists the conditions under which a #TS occurs and the error code returned by the exception mechanism.
#TS cannot be disabled.
Error Code Returned.  See Table 8-4 for a list of error codes returned by the #TS exception.
Program Restart.  #TS is a fault-type exception. If the exception occurs before loading the segment 
selectors from the TSS, the saved instruction pointer points to the instruction that caused the #TS. 
However, most #TS conditions occur due to errors with the loaded segment selectors. When an error is 
found with a segment selector, the hardware task-switch mechanism completes loading the new task 
state from the TSS, and then triggers the #TS exception mechanism. In this case, the saved instruction 
pointer points to the first instruction in the new task.
In long mode, a #TS cannot be caused by a task switch, because the hardware task-switch mechanism 
is disabled. A #TS occurs only as a result of a control transfer through a gate descriptor that results in 
an invalid stack-segment reference using an SS selector in the TSS. In this case, the saved instruction 
pointer always points to the control-transfer instruction that caused the #TS.
Table 8-4.
Invalid-TSS Exception Conditions
Selector 
Reference
Error Condition
Error Code
Task-State 
Segment
TSS limit check on a task switch
TSS Selector Index
TSS limit check on an inner-level stack pointer
LDT Segment
LDT does not point to GDT
LDT Selector Index
LDT reference outside GDT
GDT entry is not an LDT descriptor
LDT descriptor is not present
Code Segment
CS reference outside GDT or LDT
CS Selector Index
Privilege check (conforming DPL > CPL)
Privilege check (non-conforming DPL 1 CPL)
Type check (CS not executable)
Data Segment
Data segment reference outside GDT or LDT
DS, ES, FS or GS Selector Index
Type check (data segment not readable)
Stack Segment
SS reference outside GDT or LDT
SS Selector Index
Privilege check (stack segment descriptor DPL 1 CPL)
Privilege check (stack segment selector RPL 1 CPL)
Type check (stack segment not writable)
[AMD Public Use]
