58
System Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
remove the target PTE and only those upper-level entries that lead to the target PTE in the page table 
hierarchy, leaving unrelated upper-level entries intact. This may provide a performance benefit.
Page table management software must be written in a way that takes this behavior into account. 
Software that was written for a processor that does not cache upper-level table entries may result in 
stale entries being incorrectly used for translations when TCE is enabled. Software that is compatible 
with TCE mode will operate in either mode.
For software using INVLPGB to broadcast TLB invalidations, the invalidations are controlled by the 
EFER.TCE value on the processor executing the INVLPGB instruction.
Before setting TCE, system software should verify that this feature is supported by examining the 
feature flag CPUID Fn8000_0001_ECX[TCE]. See Section 3.3 “Processor Feature Identification,” on 
page 71 for information on using the CPUID instruction.
Mcommit Enable (MCOMMIT) Bit.  Bit 17. Setting this bit to 1 enables the MCOMMIT instruction. 
When clear, attempting to execute MCOMMIT causes a #UD exception.
Interruptible Wbinvd (INTWB) Bit.  Bit 18. Setting this bit to 1 allows the WBINVD and 
WBNOINVD instructions to be interruptible. See WBINVD and WBNOINVD in Volume 3.
Upper Address Ignore Enable (UAIE) Bit.  Bit 20. Setting this bit to 1 excludes bits 63:57 of an 
address from the canonical check for some memory references. Section 5.10 “Upper Address Ignore,” 
on page 168.
Automatic IBRS Enable (AIBRSE) Bit.  Bit 21. Setting this bit to 1 enables Automatic IBRS 
(Indirect Branch Restricted Speculation). When Automatic IBRS is enabled, the following processes 
have IBRS protection even when SPEC_CTRL[IBRS] is not set:
•
Processes running at CPL=0
•
Processes running as host when Secure Nested Paging (SEV-SNP) is enabled
When Automatic IBRS is enabled and Enhanced Return Address Predictor Security is not supported 
(CPUID Fn8000_0021_EAX[ERAPS] (bit 24) = 0), the return address predictor is cleared on 
VMEXIT. More information about IBRS protection can be found in Section 3.2.9 “Speculation 
Control Registers,” on page 66.
3.1.8  Extended Control Registers (XCRn)
Extended control registers (XCRn) form a new register space that is available for managing processor 
architectural features and capabilities. Currently only XCR0 is defined. All other XCR registers are 
reserved. For more details on the Extended Control Registers, see “Extended Control Registers” in 
Volume 4, Chapter 1. 
[AMD Public Use]
