Secure Virtual Machine
519
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
MSR Intercept Information.  On #VMEXIT, the processor indicates in the VMCB’s EXITINFO1 
whether a RDMSR (EXITINFO1 = 0) or WRMSR (EXITINFO1 = 1) was intercepted.
15.12
Exception Intercepts
When intercepting exceptions that define an error code (normally pushed onto the exception stack), 
the SVM hardware delivers that error code in the VMCB’s EXITINFO1 field; the exception vector 
number can be derived from the EXITCODE. The CS.SEL and rIP saved in the VMCB on an 
exception-intercept match those that would otherwise have been pushed onto the exception stack 
frame, except that when an interrupt-based instruction causes an intercept, the rIP of the instruction is 
stored in the VMCB, rather than the rIP of the next instruction. The interrupt-based instructions are 
INT3 (opcode CC), INTO, and BOUND.
Unless otherwise noted below, no special registers are written before an exception is intercepted. For 
details on guest state saved in the VMCB, see Section 15.7.1.
External interrupts and software interrupts (INTn instruction) do not check the exception intercepts, 
even when they use a vector in the range 0 to 31.
Exceptions that occur during the handling of a prior exception are checked for intercepts before being 
combined with the prior exception (e.g., into a double-fault). If the result of combining exceptions is a 
double-fault or shutdown, the processor checks whether those are intercepted before attempting 
delivery.
Example:  Assume that the VMM intercepts #GP and #DF exceptions, and the guest raises a (non-
intercepted) #NP, during the delivery of which it also gets a #GP (e.g., due to an illegal IDT entry)—a 
situation that, according to x86 semantics, results in a #DF. In this case, #VMEXIT signals an 
intercepted #GP, not an intercepted #DF and fills EXITINTINFO with the #NP fault. On the other 
hand, if only the #DF intercept were active in this scenario, #VMEXIT would signal an intercepted 
#DF.
The following subsections detail the individual intercepts.
15.12.1  #DE (Divide By Zero)
The EXITINFO1 and EXITINFO2 fields are undefined.
15.12.2  #DB (Debug)
The #DB exception can have fault-type (e.g., instruction breakpoint) or trap-type (e.g., data 
breakpoint) behavior; accordingly the intercept differs in what state is saved in the VMCB (see 
Section 15.7.1). In either case, however, the value saved for DR6 and DR7 matches what would be 
visible to a #DB exception handler (i.e., both #DB faults and traps are permitted to write DR6 and DR7 
before the intercept). The EXITINFO1 and EXITINFO2 fields are undefined. 
Fault-type #DB exceptions, whether indicated in EXITCODE or EXITINTINFO, cause the CS:rIP 
saved in the VMCB to indicate the instruction that caused the #DB exception. Trap-type #DB 
[AMD Public Use]
