Secure Virtual Machine
547
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
The fields of the DEV_MAP[n] registers are defined as follows:
•
UNIT0—Bits 4:0. Specifies the first of two HyperTransport link unit numbers on the bus number
specified by the BUSNO field.
•
V0—Bit 5. Indicates whether UNIT0 is valid (no matches occur on invalid entries).
•
UNIT1—Bits 10:6. Specifies the second of two HyperTransport link unit numbers on the bus
number specified by the BUSNO field.
•
V1—Bit 11. Indicates whether UNIT1 is valid (no matches occur on invalid entries).
•
BUSNO—Bits 19:12. Specifies a HyperTransport link bus number.
•
DOM0—Bits 25:20. Specifies the protection domain for the first HyperTransport link unit.
•
DOM1—Bits 31:26. Specifies the protection domain for the second HyperTransport link unit.
15.24.7  Unauthorized Access Logging 
Any attempted unauthorized access by devices to DEV-protected memory is logged by the host bridge 
in the DEV_Error_Status and DEV_Error_Address registers for possible inspection by the VMM.
15.24.8  Secure Initialization Support 
The host bridge contains additional logic that operates in conjunction with the SKINIT instruction to 
provide a limited form of memory protection during the secure startup protocol. This provides 
protection for a Secure Loader image in memory, allowing it to, among other things, set up full DEV 
protection. (See Section 15.27 for detailed operation of SKINIT.)
The host bridge logic includes a hidden (not accessible to software) SL_DEV_BASE address register. 
SL_DEV_BASE points to a 64KB-aligned 64KB region of physical memory. When SL_DEV_EN is 
1, the 64KB region defined by SL_DEV_BASE is protected from external access (as if it were 
protected by the DEV), as well as from any access (both CPU and external accesses) via GART-
translated addresses. Additionally, the SL_DEV mechanism, when enabled, blocks all device accesses 
to PCI Configuration space.
15.25
Nested Paging
The optional SVM nested paging feature provides for two levels of address translation, thus 
eliminating the need for the VMM to maintain shadow page tables.
15.25.1  Traditional Paging versus Nested Paging
Figure 15-12 shows how a page in the linear address space is mapped to a page in the physical address 
space in traditional (single-level) address translation. Control register CR3 contains the physical 
address of the base of the page tables (PT, represented by the shaded box in the figure), which governs 
the address translation.
[AMD Public Use]
