266
Exceptions and Interrupts
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
Masked exceptions are also reported in the appropriate floating-point status register. Instead of
transferring control to an interrupt handler, however, the processor handles the exception in a
default manner and execution proceeds.
If the processor detects more than one exception while executing a single floating-point instruction, it 
prioritizes the exceptions in a predictable manner. When responding in a default manner to masked 
exceptions, it is possible that the processor acts only on the high-priority exception and ignores lower-
priority exceptions. In the case of vector (SIMD) floating-point instructions, priorities are set on sub-
operations, not across all operations. For example, if the processor detects and acts on a QNaN 
operand in one sub-operation, the processor can still detect and act on a denormal operand in another 
sub-operation.
When reporting SSE floating-point exceptions before taking an interrupt or handling them in a default 
manner, the processor first classifies the exceptions as follows:
•
Input exceptions include SNaN operand (#I), invalid operation (#I), denormal operand (#D), or
zero-divide (#Z). Using a NaN operand with a maximum, minimum, compare, or convert
instruction is also considered an input exception.
•
Output exceptions include numeric overflow (#O), numeric underflow (#U), and precision (#P).
Using the above classification, the processor applies the following procedure to report the exceptions:
1. The exceptions for all sub-operations are prioritized.
2. The exception conditions for all sub-operations are logically ORed together to form a single set of
exceptions covering all operations. For example, if two sub-operations produce a denormal result,
only one denormal exception is reported.
3. If the set of exceptions includes any unmasked input exceptions, all input exceptions are reported
in MCXSR, and no output exceptions are reported. Otherwise, all input and output exceptions are
reported in MCXSR.
4. If any exceptions are unmasked, control is transferred to the appropriate interrupt handler.
Table 8-10 on page 266 lists the priorities for simultaneous floating-point exceptions.
Table 8-10.
Simultaneous Floating-Point Exception Priorities
Exception 
Priority
Exception Condition
(High)
0
SNaN Operand
#I
NaN Operand of Maximum, Minimum, Compare, and Convert 
Instructions (Vector Floating-Point)
Stack Overflow (x87 Floating-Point)
Stack Underflow (x87 Floating-Point)
1
QNaN Operand
—
2
Invalid Operation (Remaining Conditions)
#I
Zero Divide
#Z
[AMD Public Use]
