22
System-Programming Overview
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
Set breakpoints on specific instructions within a program.
•
Set breakpoints on an instruction-address match.
•
Set breakpoints on a data-address match.
•
Set breakpoints on specific I/O-port addresses.
•
Set breakpoints to occur on task switches when hardware multitasking is used.
•
Single step an application instruction-by-instruction.
•
Single step only branches and interrupts.
•
Record a history of branches and interrupts taken by a program.
The debugging facilities are fully described in “Software-Debug Resources” on page 391. Some 
processors provide additional, implementation-specific debug support. For more information, refer to 
the BIOS and Kernel Developer’s Guide (BKDG) or Processor Programming Reference Manual 
(PPR)  applicable to your product.
1.7.4  Performance Monitoring
For many software developers, the ability to identify and eliminate performance bottlenecks from a 
program is nearly as important as quickly isolating programming errors. Implementations of the 
AMD64 architecture provide hardware performance-monitoring resources that can be used by special 
software applications to identify such bottlenecks. Non-privileged software can access the 
performance monitoring facilities, but only if privileged software grants that access. 
The performance-monitoring facilities allow the counting of events, or the duration of events. 
Performance-analysis software can use the data to calculate the frequency of certain events, or the time 
spent performing specific activities. That information can be used to suggest areas for improvement 
and the types of optimizations that are helpful.
The performance-monitoring facilities are fully described in “Performance Monitoring Counters” on 
page 411. The specific events that can be monitored are generally implementation specific. For more 
information, refer to the BIOS and Kernel Developer’s Guide (BKDG) or Processor Programming 
Reference Manual (PPR)  applicable to your product.
[AMD Public Use]
