Processor Initialization and Long Mode Activation
487
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Some model-specific features are not pervasive across processor implementations and are therefore 
not described in this volume. For more information on these features and their initialization 
requirements, see the BIOS and Kernel Developer’s Guide (BKDG) or Processor Programming 
Reference Manual (PPR)  applicable to your product.
14.3
Initializing Real Mode
A basic real-mode (real-address-mode) operating environment must be initialized so that system 
software can initialize the protected-mode operating environment. This real-mode environment must 
include:
•
A real-mode IDT for vectoring interrupts and exceptions to the appropriate handlers while in real
mode. The IDT base-address value in the IDTR initialized by the processor can be used, or system
software can relocate the IDT by loading a new base-address into the IDTR.
•
The real-mode interrupt and exception handlers. These must be loaded before enabling external
interrupts.
Because the processor can always accept a non-maskable interrupt (NMI), it is possible an NMI
can occur before initializing the IDT or the NMI handler. System hardware must provide a
mechanism for disabling NMIs to allow time for the IDT and NMI handler to be properly
initialized. Alternatively, the IDT and NMI handler can be stored in non-volatile memory that is
referenced by the initial values loaded into the IDTR.
Maskable interrupts can be enabled by setting EFLAGS.IF after the real-mode IDT and interrupt
handlers are initialized.
•
A valid stack pointer (SS:SP) to be used by the interrupt mechanism should interrupts or
exceptions occur. The values of SS:SP initialized by the processor can be used.
•
One or more data-segment selectors for storing the protected-mode data structures that are created
in real mode.
Once the real-mode environment is established, software can begin initializing the protected-mode 
environment.
14.4
Initializing Protected Mode
Protected mode must be entered before activating long mode. A minimal protected-mode environment 
must be established to allow long-mode initialization to take place. This environment must include the 
following:
•
A protected-mode IDT for vectoring interrupts and exceptions to the appropriate handlers while in
protected mode. 
•
The protected-mode interrupt and exception handlers referenced by the IDT. Gate descriptors for
each handler must be loaded in the IDT.
[AMD Public Use]
