390
Software Debug and Performance Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
13
Software Debug and Performance 
Resources
Testing, debug, and performance optimization consume a significant portion of the time needed to 
develop a new computer or software product and move it successfully into production. To stay 
competitive, product developers need tools that allow them to rapidly detect, isolate, and correct 
problems before a product is shipped. The goal of the debug and performance features incorporated 
into processor implementations of the AMD64 architecture is to support the tool chain solutions used 
in software and hardware product development.
The debug and performance resources that can be supported by AMD64 architecture implementations 
include:
•
Software Debug—Software-debug facilities include the debug registers (DR0–DR7), debug 
exception, and breakpoint exception. Additional features are provided using model-specific 
registers (MSRs). These registers are used to set breakpoints on branches, interrupts, and 
exceptions and to single step from one branch to the next. The software-debug capability is 
described in the following section.
•
Performance Monitoring Counters—Performance monitoring counters (PMCs) are provided to 
count specific processor hardware events. A set of control registers allow the selection of events to 
be monitored and a corresponding set of counter registers track the frequency of monitored events. 
These counters are described in Section 13.2 “Performance Monitoring Counters” on page 411.
•
Instruction-Based Sampling— Instruction-based sampling is a hardware-based facility that 
enables system software to capture specific data concerning instruction fetch and instruction 
execution operation based on random sampling. This facility is described in Section 13.3 
“Instruction-Based Sampling” on page 424.
•
Lightweight Profiling—AMD64 architecture provides instructions that allow user-level programs 
to manage the gathering of instruction statistics using very little overhead. This facility is 
described in Section 13.4 “Lightweight Profiling” on page 438.
Although a subset of the facilities listed are available in all processor implementations, the remainder 
are optional. Support for optional facilities is indicated via CPUID feature bits. The means of 
determining support for each architected facility is described along with the facility in the sections that 
follow.
A given processor product may include additional debug and performance monitoring capabilities 
beyond those which are architecturally-defined. For details see the BIOS and Kernel Developer’s 
Guide (BKDG) or Processor Programming Reference Manual (PPR)   applicable to your product.
[AMD Public Use]
