74
Segmented Virtual Memory
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
When this occurs, the selector is updated and the segment base is set to selector * 16. The segment 
limit and segment attributes are unchanged, but are normally 64K (the maximum allowable limit) and 
read/write data, respectively.
On FAR transfers, CS (code segment) selector is updated to the new value, and the CS segment base is 
set to selector * 16. The CS segment limit and attributes are unchanged, but are usually 64K and 
read/write, respectively.
If the interrupt descriptor table (IDT) is used to find the real mode IDT see “Real-Mode Interrupt 
Control Transfers” on page 268.
The GDT, LDT, and TSS (see below) are not used in real mode.
4.2
Virtual-8086 Mode Segmentation
Virtual-8086 mode supports 16-bit real mode programs running under protected mode (see below). It 
uses a simple form of memory segmentation, optional paging, and limited protection checking. 
Programs running in virtual-8086 mode can access up to 1MB of memory space.
As with real mode segmentation, each 64K segment (CS, DS, ES, FS, GS, SS) is aligned on 16-byte 
boundaries. The segment base is the lowest address in a given segment, and is equal to the segment 
selector * 16. The POP and MOV instructions work exactly as in real mode and can be used to load a 
(possibly) new segment selector into one of the segment registers. When this occurs, the selector is 
updated and the segment base is set to selector * 16. The segment limit and segment attributes are 
unchanged, but are normally 64K (the maximum allowable limit) and read/write data, respectively.
FAR transfers, with the exception of interrupts and exceptions, operate as in real mode. On FAR 
transfers, the CS (code segment) selector is updated to the new value, and the CS segment base is set to 
selector * 16. The CS segment limit and attributes are unchanged, but are usually 64K and read/write, 
respectively. Interrupts and exceptions switch the processor to protected mode. (See Chapter 8, 
“Exceptions and Interrupts” for more information.)
4.3
Protected Mode Segmented-Memory Models
System software can use the segmentation mechanism to support one of two basic segmented-memory 
models: a flat-memory model or a multi-segmented model. These segmentation models are supported 
in legacy mode and in compatibility mode. Each type of model is described in the following sections.
4.3.1  Multi-Segmented Model
In the multi-segmented memory model, each segment register can reference a unique base address 
with a unique segment size. Segments can be as small as a single byte or as large as 4 Gbytes. When 
page translation is used, multiple segments can be mapped to a single page and multiple pages can be 
mapped to a single segment. Figure 1-1 on page 6 shows an example of the multi-segmented model. 
[AMD Public Use]
