System-Programming Overview
21
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Support for hardware multitasking is provided by implementations of the AMD64 architecture when 
software is running in legacy mode. Hardware multitasking provides automated mechanisms for 
switching tasks, saving the execution state of the suspended task, and restoring the execution state of 
the resumed task. When hardware multitasking is used to switch tasks, the processor takes the 
following actions:
•
The processor automatically suspends execution of the task, allowing any executing instructions to 
complete and save their results.
•
The execution state of a task is saved in the task TSS.
•
The execution state of a new task is loaded into the processor from its TSS.
•
The processor begins executing the new task at the location specified in the new task TSS.
Use of hardware-multitasking features is optional in legacy mode. Generally, modern operating 
systems do not use the hardware-multitasking features, and instead perform task management entirely 
in software. Long mode does not support hardware multitasking at all. 
Whether hardware multitasking is used or not, system software must create and initialize at least one 
task-state segment data-structure. This requirement holds for both long-mode and legacy-mode 
software. The single task-state segment holds critical pieces of the task execution environment and is 
referenced during certain control transfers.
Detailed information on hardware multitasking is available in Chapter 12, “Task Management,” along 
with a full description of the requirements that must be met in initializing a task-state segment when 
hardware multitasking is not used.
1.7.2  Machine Check
Implementations of the AMD64 architecture support the machine-check exception. This exception is 
useful in system applications with stringent requirements for reliability, availability, and serviceability. 
The exception allows specialized system-software utilities to report hardware errors that are generally 
severe and non-recoverable. Providing the capability to report such errors can allow complex system 
problems to be pinpointed rapidly.
The machine-check exception is described in Chapter 9, “Machine Check Architecture.” Much of the 
error-reporting capabilities is implementation dependent. For more information, developers of 
machine-check error-reporting software should refer to the BIOS and Kernel Developer’s Guide 
(BKDG) or Processor Programming Reference Manual (PPR)   or applicable to your product.
1.7.3  Software Debugging
A software-debugging mechanism is provided in hardware to help software developers quickly isolate 
programming errors. This capability can be used to debug system software and application software 
alike. Only privileged software can access the debugging facilities. Generally, software-debug support 
is provided by a privileged application program rather than by the operating system itself.
The facilities supported by the AMD64 architecture allow debugging software to perform the 
following:
[AMD Public Use]
