Secure Virtual Machine
615
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Additional Intercept Behavior. Additional hardware-forced intercept behavior exists in guests that 
run with either of these features enabled:
•
For either feature, hardware treats physical INTR, NMI, INIT, and #MC events as intercepted
regardless of the intercept bit set in the VMCB. 
•
Under Alternate Injection, any MSR access to the x2APIC MSR range (MSR 0x800-0x8FF) by the
guest is intercepted regardless of the MSR_PROT intercept and MSR protection bitmap. In this
case, the interception behavior is the same as what would occur if the MSR bitmap indicated an
interception of the corresponding MSR.
15.36.17  Side-Channel Protection 
SEV-SNP provides optional protections against certain side channel attacks. 
Branch Target Buffer Isolation 
SNP-active guests may choose to enable the Branch Target Buffer Isolation mode through 
SEV_FEATURES bit 7 (BTBIsolation). The Branch Target Buffer (BTB) is an internal CPU structure 
that is used when predicting indirect branches, and SNP-active guests may choose to impose 
additional restrictions on it in order to help prevent certain types of speculative execution-based side 
channels.
When executing an SNP-active guest when BTB Isolation is enabled, CPU hardware will ensure that 
no code outside of that guest context is able to influence the BTB-based predictions performed by 
hardware within the guest. Hardware tracks the source of prediction information in the BTB and may 
flush BTB contents when required to maintain this isolation.
In hardware that supports BTB Isolation, new BTB prediction information is never written if 
SPEC_CTRL[IBRS] is enabled in the current context. Therefore, it is recommended that non-guest 
software that executes temporarily (e.g., hypervisor exit handling code) run with SPEC_CTRL[IBRS] 
set to 1. This ensures that indirect branch information from that context is not stored in the BTB and 
may avoid the need for a BTB flush when guest execution is resumed.
Indirect Branch Prediction Barrier on Entry
SNP-active guests may choose to enable Indirect Branch Prediction Barrier (IBPB) on Entry through 
SEV_FEATURES bit 21 (IbpbOnEntry). Support for IBPB on Entry is indicated by CPUID 
Fn8000_001F[IbpbOnEntry], bit 31. When entering a guest context with IbpbOnEntry enabled, CPU 
hardware writes PRED_CMD[IBPB]=1 before executing guest instructions.
Instruction Based Sampling 
SEV-ES and SNP-active guests may choose to disallow the use of Instruction Based Sampling (IBS) 
by the hypervisor in order to limit the information that may be gathered about their execution. Guests 
may enable this restriction through SEV_FEATURES bit 6 (PreventHostIBS). When a VMRUN is 
executed on a guest that has enabled this protection, the IbsFetchCtl[IbsFetchEn] and 
IbsOpCtl[IbsOpEn] MSR bits must be 0. If either of these bits are not 0 then the VMRUN will fail with 
a VMEXIT_INVALID error code.
[AMD Public Use]
