106
Segmented Virtual Memory
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
software. Software changes the CPL by performing a control transfer to a different code segment with 
a new privilege level.
Descriptor Privilege-Level.  The descriptor privilege-level (DPL) is the privilege level that system 
software assigns to individual segments. The DPL is used in privilege checks to determine whether 
software can access the segment referenced by the descriptor. In the case of gate descriptors, the DPL 
determines whether software can access the descriptor reference by the gate. The DPL is stored in the 
segment (or gate) descriptor.
Requestor Privilege-Level.  The requestor privilege-level (RPL) reflects the privilege level of the 
program that created the selector. The RPL can be used to let a called program know the privilege level 
of the program that initiated the call. The RPL is stored in the selector used to reference the segment 
(or gate) descriptor.
The following sections describe how the CPL, DPL, and RPL are used by the processor in performing 
privilege checks on data accesses and control transfers. Failure to pass a protection check generally 
causes an exception to occur.
4.10
Data-Access Privilege Checks
4.10.1  Accessing Data Segments
Before loading a data-segment register (DS, ES, FS, or GS) with a segment selector, the processor 
checks the privilege levels as follows to see if access is allowed:
1. The processor compares the CPL with the RPL in the data-segment selector and determines the
effective privilege level for the data access. The processor sets the effective privilege level to the
lowest privilege (numerically-higher value) indicated by the comparison.
2. The processor compares the effective privilege level with the DPL in the descriptor-table entry
referenced by the segment selector. If the effective privilege level is greater than or equal to
(numerically lower-than or equal-to) the DPL, then the processor loads the segment register with
the data-segment selector. The processor automatically loads the corresponding descriptor-table
entry into the hidden portion of the segment register. 
If the effective privilege level is lower than (numerically greater-than) the DPL, a general-
protection exception (#GP) occurs and the segment register is not loaded.
Figure 4-26 on page 107 shows two examples of data-access privilege checks.
[AMD Public Use]
