524
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
15.13.5  Virtual Interrupt Intercept
This intercept is taken just before a guest takes a virtual interrupt. When the intercept triggers, the 
virtual interrupt has not been taken, and remains pending in the guest's VMCB V_IRQ field. This 
intercept is not required for handling fixed local APIC interrupts, but may be used for emulating 
ExtINT interrupt delivery mode (which is not masked by the TPR), or legacy PICs in auto-EOI mode.
15.14
Miscellaneous Intercepts
The SVM architecture includes intercepts to handle task switches, processor freezes due to FERR, and 
shutdown operations.
15.14.1  Task Switch Intercept
Checked by—Any instruction or event that causes a task switch (e.g., JMP, CALL, exceptions, 
interrupts, software interrupts).
Priority—The intercept is checked before the task switch takes place but after the incoming TSS and 
task gate (if one was involved) have been checked for correctness.
Task switches can modify several resources that a VMM may want to protect (CR3, EFLAGS, LDT). 
However, instead of checking various intercepts (e.g., CR3 Write, LDTR Write) individually, task 
switches check only a single intercept bit.
On #VMEXIT, the following information is delivered in the VMCB:
•
EXITINFO1[15:0] holds the segment selector identifying the incoming TSS.
•
EXITINFO2[31:0] holds the error code to push in the new task, if applicable; otherwise, this field
is undefined.
•
EXITINFO2[63:32] holds auxiliary information for the VMM:
-
EXITINFO2[36]—Set to 1 if the task switch was caused by an IRET; else cleared to 0.
-
EXITINFO2[38]—Set to 1 if the task switch was caused by a far jump; else cleared to 0.
-
EXITINFO2[44]—Set to 1 if the task switch has an error code; else cleared to 0.
-
EXITINFO2[48]—The value of EFLAGS.RF that would be saved in the outgoing TSS if the 
task switch were not intercepted.
15.14.2  Ferr_Freeze Intercept
Checked when the processor freezes due to assertion of FERR (while IGNNE is deasserted, and legacy 
handling of FERR is selected in CR0.NE), i.e., while the processor is waiting to be unfrozen by an 
external interrupt.
[AMD Public Use]
