Software Debug and Performance Resources
439
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
with the LWP hardware. The LWPCB in turn points to a buffer in memory in which LWP stores event 
records.
Each thread in a multi-threaded process must configure LWP separately. A thread has its own ring 
buffer and counters which are context switched with the rest of the thread state. However, a single 
monitor thread could collect and process LWP data from multiple other threads.
LWP may be set up to run in one of two modes: 
•
Synchronized Mode
LWP runs in synchronized mode when it is started with LWPCB.Flags.CONT = 0. In this mode, 
LWP will not advance the ring buffer pointer when the event ring buffer is full. It simply 
increments LWPCB.MissedEvents to count the number of missed event records. In synchronized 
mode, a thread can remove event records from the ring buffer by advancing the ring buffer tail 
pointer without stopping LWP in the executing thread. If the buffer had been full, event records 
will again be written and the ring buffer pointer will be advanced.
•
Continuous Mode
LWP runs in continuous mode when it is started with LWPCB.Flags.CONT = 1. In this mode, 
LWP will store an event record even when the event ring buffer is full, wrapping around in the ring 
buffer and overwriting the oldest event record. In continuous mode, LWPCB.MissedEvents counts 
the number of times that such wrapping has occurred. The only reliable way to read events from 
the ring buffer when LWP is in continuous mode is to stop LWP in the running thread before 
accessing the LWPCB and the ring buffer contents. Support for continuous mode is indicated by 
CPUID Fn8000_001C_EAX[LwpCont].
During profiling, the LWP hardware monitors and reports on one or more types of events. Following 
are the steps in this process:
1. Count—Each time an instruction is retired, LWP decrements its internal event counters for all of 
the events associated with the instruction. An instruction can cause zero, one, or multiple events. 
For instance, an indirect jump through a pointer in memory counts as an instruction retired, a 
branch retired, and may also cause up to two DCache misses (or more, if there is a TLB miss) and 
up to two ICache misses.
-
Some events may have filters or conditions on them that regulate counting. For instance, the 
application may configure LWP so that only cache miss events with latency greater than a 
specified minimum are eligible to be counted.
2. Gather—When an event counter becomes negative, the event should be reported. LWP gathers 
an event record and, if enabled, samples the value in the PTSC to be included in the record as the 
TimeStamp value. The event’s counter may continue to count below zero until the record is 
written to the event ring buffer.
For most events, such as instructions retired, LWP gathers an event record describing the 
instruction that caused the counter to become negative. However, it is valid for LWP to gather 
event record data for the next instruction that causes the event, or to take other measures to capture 
a record. Some of these options are described with the individual events.
[AMD Public Use]
