160
Page Translation and Protection
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
Executing the RSM instruction to return from SMM.
•
Updating a memory-type range register (MTRR) with the WRMSR instruction.
•
External initialization of the processor.
•
External masking of the A20 address bit (asserting the A20M# input signal).
•
Writes to certain model-specific registers with the WRMSR instruction; see the BIOS and Kernel
Developer’s Guide (BKDG) or Processor Programming Reference Manual (PPR)  applicable to
your product for more information.
•
A MOV to CR4 that changes CR4.PKE from 0 to 1.
•
A MOV to CR4 that clears CR4.PCIDE from 1 to 0.
Invalidation of Table Entry Upgrades.  If a table entry is updated to remove a page access 
constraint, such as removing supervisor, read-only, and/or no-execute restrictions, an invalidation is 
not required because the hardware will automatically detect the changes. If a table entry is updated and 
does not remove a permission violation, it is unpredictable whether the old or updated entry will be 
used until an invalidation is performed.
Speculative Caching of Address Translations.  For performance reasons, AMD64 processors may 
speculatively load valid address translations into the TLB on false execution paths. Such translations 
are not based on references that a program makes from an “architectural state” perspective, but which 
the processor may make in speculatively following an instruction path which turns out to be 
mispredicted. In general, the processor may create a TLB entry for any linear address for which valid 
entries exist in the page table structure currently pointed to by CR3. This may occur for both 
instruction fetches and data references. Such entries remain cached in the TLBs and may be used in 
subsequent translations. Loading a translation speculatively will set the Accessed bit, if not already 
set. A translation will not be loaded speculatively if the Dirty bit needs to be set.
Caching of Upper Level Translation Table Entries.  Similarly, to improve the performance of table 
walks on TLB misses, AMD64 processors may save upper level translation table entries in special 
table walk caching structures which are kept coherent with the tables in memory via the same 
mechanisms as the TLBs—by means of the INVLPG instruction, moves to CR3, and modification of 
paging control bits in CR0 and CR4. Like address translations in the TLB, these upper level entries 
may also be cached speculatively and by false-path execution. These entries are never cached if their P 
(present) bits are set to 0. 
Under certain circumstances, an upper-level table entry that cannot ultimately lead to a valid 
translation (because there are no valid entries in the lower level table to which it points) may also be 
cached. This can happen while executing down a false path, when an in-progress table walk gets 
cancelled by the branch mispredict before the low level table entry that would cause a fault is 
encountered. Said another way, the fact that a page table has no valid entries does not guarantee that 
upper level table entries won't be accessed and cached in the processor, as long as those upper level 
entries are marked as present. For this reason, it is not safe to modify an upper level entry, even if no 
valid lower-level entries exist, without first clearing its present bit, followed by an INVLPG 
instruction. 
[AMD Public Use]
