560
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
15.27.5  System Interface, Memory Controller and I/O Hub Logic
SKINIT uses special support logic in the processor’s system interface unit, the internal controller and 
the I/O hub to which the TPM is attached. SKINIT uses special transactions that are unique to SKINIT, 
along with this support logic, designed to securely transmit the SL Image to the TPM for validation.
The use of this special protocol is intended to allow the TPM to detect true execution, as opposed to 
emulation, of a trusted Secure Loader, which in turn provides a means for verifying the subsequent 
loading and startup of a trusted Security Kernel.
15.27.6  SKINIT Operation
The SKINIT instruction is intended to be used primarily in normal mode prior to the VMM taking 
control.
SKINIT takes the physical base address of the SLB as its only input operand in EAX, and performs the 
following steps:
1. Reinitialize processor state in the same manner as for the INIT signal, then enter flat 32-bit
protected mode with paging off. The CS selector is set to 8h and CS is read only. The SS selector
is set to 10h and SS is read/write and expand-up. The CS and SS bases are cleared to 0 and limits
are set to 4G. DS, ES, FS and GS are left as 16-bit real mode segments and the SL must reload
these with protected mode selectors having appropriate GDT entries before using them. Initialized
data in the SLB may be referenced using the SS segment override prefix until DS is reloaded. The
general purpose registers are cleared except for EAX, which points to the start of the secure
loader, EDX, which contains model, family and stepping information, and ESP, which contains
the initial stack pointer for the secure loader. Cache contents remain intact, as do the x87 and SSE
control registers. Most MSRs also retain their values, except those which might compromise
SVM protections. The EFER MSR, however, is cleared. The DPD, R_INIT and DIS_A20M flags
in the VM_CR register are unconditionally set to 1.
2. Form the SLB base address by clearing bits 15:0 of EAX (EAX is updated), and enable the
SL_DEV protection mechanism (see Section 15.24.8) to protect the 64-Kbyte region of physical
memory starting at the SLB base address from any device access. 
3. In multiprocessor operation, perform an interprocessor handshake as described in
Section 15.27.8.
4. Read the SL image from memory and transmit it to the TPM in a manner that cannot be emulated
by software. 
5. Signal the TPM to complete the hash and verify the signature. If any failures have occurred along
the way, the TPM will conclude that no valid SL was started.
6. Clear the Global Interrupt Flag. This disables all interrupts, including NMI, SMI and INIT and
ensures that the subsequent code can execute atomically. If the processor enters the shutdown
state (due to a triple fault for instance) while GIF is clear, it can only be restarted by means of a
RESET.
[AMD Public Use]
