Segmented Virtual Memory
75
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
The multi-segmented memory model provides the greatest level of flexibility for system software 
using the segmentation mechanism.
Compatibility mode allows the multi-segmented model to be used in support of legacy software. 
However, in compatibility mode, the multi-segmented memory model is restricted to the first 4 Gbytes 
of virtual-memory space. Access to virtual memory above 4 Gbytes requires the use of 64-bit mode, 
which does not support segmentation.
4.3.2  Flat-Memory Model
The flat-memory model is the simplest form of segmentation to implement. Although segmentation 
cannot be disabled, the flat-memory model allows system software to bypass most of the segmentation 
mechanism. In the flat-memory model, all segment-base addresses have a value of 0 and the segment 
limits are fixed at 4 Gbytes. Clearing the segment-base value to 0 effectively disables segment 
translation, resulting in a single segment spanning the entire virtual-address space. All segment 
descriptors reference this single, flat segment. Figure 1-2 on page 7 shows an example of the flat-
memory model.
4.3.3  Segmentation in 64-Bit Mode
In 64-bit mode, segmentation is disabled. The segment-base value is ignored and treated as 0 by the 
segmentation hardware. Likewise, segment limits and most attributes are ignored. There are a few 
exceptions. The CS-segment DPL, D, and L attributes are used (respectively) to establish the privilege 
level for a program, the default operand size, and whether the program is running in 64-bit mode or 
compatibility mode. The FS and GS segments can be used as additional base registers in address 
calculations, and those segments can have non-zero base-address values. This facilitates addressing 
thread-local data and certain system-software data structures. See “FS and GS Registers in 64-Bit 
Mode” on page 80 for details about the FS and GS segments in 64-bit mode. The system-segment 
registers are always used in 64-bit mode.
4.4
Segmentation Data Structures and Registers
Figure 4-1 on page 76 shows the following data structures used by the segmentation mechanism:
•
Segment Descriptors—As the name implies, a segment descriptor describes a segment, including
its location in virtual-address space, its size, protection characteristics, and other attributes.
•
Descriptor Tables—Segment descriptors are stored in memory in one of three tables. The global-
descriptor table (GDT) holds segment descriptors that can be shared among all tasks. Multiple
local-descriptor tables (LDT) can be defined to hold descriptors that are used by specific tasks and
are not shared globally. The interrupt-descriptor table (IDT) holds gate descriptors that are used to
access the segments where interrupt handlers are located.
•
Task-State Segment—A task-state segment (TSS) is a special type of system segment that contains
task-state information and data structures for each task. For example, a TSS holds a copy of the
GPRs and EFLAGS register when a task is suspended. A TSS also holds the pointers to privileged-
[AMD Public Use]
