484
Processor Initialization and Long Mode Activation
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
14.2
Hardware Configuration
14.2.1  Processor Implementation Information
Software can read processor-identification information from the EDX register immediately following 
RESET or INIT. This information can be used to initialize software to perform processor-specific 
functions. The information stored in EDX is defined as follows:
•
Stepping ID (bits 3:0)—This field identifies the processor-revision level.
•
Extended Model (bits 19:16) and Model (bits 7:4)—These fields combine to differentiate
processor models within a instruction family. For example, two processors may share the same
microarchitecture but differ in their feature set. Such processors are considered different models
within the same instruction family. This is a split field, comprising an extended-model portion in
bits 19:16 with a legacy portion in bits 7:4
•
Extended Family (bits 27:20) and Family (bits 11:8)—These fields combine to differentiate
processors by their microarchitecture. 
The CPUID instruction can be used to obtain the same information. This is done by executing CPUID 
with either function 1 or function 8000_0001h. Additional information about the processor and the 
features supported can be gathered using CPUID with other feature codes. See Section 3.3, “Processor 
Feature Identification,” on page 71 for additional information.
14.2.2  Enabling Internal Caches
Following a RESET (but not an INIT), all instruction and data caches are disabled, and their contents 
are invalidated (the MOESI state is set to the invalid state). Software can enable these caches by 
clearing the cache-disable bit (CR0.CD) to zero (RESET sets this bit to 1). Software can further refine 
caching based on individual pages and memory regions. Refer to “Cache Control Mechanisms” on 
page 207 for more information on cache control.
Memory-Type Range Registers (MTRRs).  Following a RESET (but not an INIT), the 
MTRRdefType register is cleared to 0, which disables the MTRR mechanism. The variable-range and 
fixed-range MTRR registers are not initialized and are therefore in an undefined state. Before enabling 
the MTRR mechanism, the initialization software (usually platform firmware) must load these 
registers with a known value to prevent unexpected results. Clearing these registers, for example, sets 
memory to the uncacheable (UC) type. 
14.2.3  Initializing Media and x87 Processor State
Some resources used by x87 floating-point instructions and media instructions must be initialized by 
software before being used. Initialization software can use the CPUID instruction to determine 
whether the processor supports these instructions, and then initialize their resources as appropriate.
x87 Floating-Point State Initialization.  Table 14-3 on page 485 shows the differences between the 
initial x87 floating-point state following a RESET and the state established by the FINIT/FNINIT 
instruction. An INIT does not modify the x87 floating-point state. The initialization software can 
[AMD Public Use]
