616
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
VMSA Register Protection
SNP-active guests may choose to enable the VMSA Register Protection feature through 
SEV_FEATURES bit 14 (VmsaRegProt). When an Automatic Exit occurs and this feature is enabled, 
CPU hardware will obfuscate the values of certain registers before they are written to the VMSA. The 
hardware will then deobfuscate these values on a subsequent VMRUN. This obfuscation may help 
prevent certain types of side channel attacks on the encrypted VMSA ciphertext.
The obfuscation is performed with a bit-wise XOR operation between the register value and an 8B 
nonce. The nonce value is stored in the VMSA and is updated in a pseudo-random manner by the CPU 
hardware on every Automatic Exit. When initializing a new VMSA, it is recommended that the nonce 
is set to a random value.
The specific VMSA fields which are obfuscated when this feature is enabled may vary by 
implementation. More information about this may be found in the AMD-SP SEV-SNP ABI 
specification. 
SMT Protection
The SMT Protection feature allows SEV-SNP VMs to require the sibling thread to be idle while the 
VM is being run. This ensures that malicious code is not executed by the sibling thread and therefore 
provides mitigation for potential side channel attacks related to shared core resources. The hypervisor 
must execute the HLT instruction or request an I/O C-state on the sibling thread prior to executing the 
VMRUN instruction to run an SEV-SNP vCPU with the SMT Protection feature enabled.
SNP-active guests may choose to enable the SMT Protection feature through SEV_FEATURES bit 15 
(SmtProtection). Support for the SMT Protection feature is indicated by CPUID 
Fn8000_001F_EAX[25](SmtProtection)=1.
When the hypervisor executes VMRUN to run an SNP-active guest with SMT Protection enabled, the 
processor checks if the sibling thread is in an idle state and in host mode. If not, the VMRUN fails with 
a VMEXIT_IDLE_REQUIRED error code.
When a thread is in the idle state and the sibling thread is in guest mode with SMT Protection active, 
the thread in the idle state does not immediately exit the idle state upon receiving a wake up event, 
such as an interrupt. Instead, the processor writes the APIC ICR register with the 
IDLE_WAKEUP_ICR MSR value and remains in the idle state until the sibling thread enters host 
mode. The write is done once and only if x2APIC mode is enabled. It is recommended that hypervisor 
software program the IDLE_WAKEUP_ICR value to send an IPI to the sibling thread in order to force 
it to enter host mode.
The IDLE_WAKEUP_ICR MSR (C001_0137h) has the same layout and access properties as the 
x2APIC Interrupt Command Register (ICR) MSR (see Section 16.13).
15.36.18  Secure TSC
SNP-active guests may choose to enable the Secure TSC feature through SEV_FEATURES bit 9 
(SecureTscEn). When enabled, Secure TSC changes the guest view of the Time Stamp Counter when 
[AMD Public Use]
