240
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
7.10.5  I/O Accesses
In implementations where the physical address size is reduced when memory encryption features are 
enabled, memory range checks (e.g. MTRR/TOM/IORR/etc.) to determine memory types or 
DRAM/MMIO are performed using the reduced physical address size. In particular, the C-bit is not 
considered a physical address bit and is masked by hardware for purposes of these checks.
Additionally, any pages corresponding to MMIO addresses must be configured with the C-bit clear. 
Encrypted I/O pages are not allowed and accesses with the C-bit set will be ignored.
7.10.6  Restrictions
In some hardware implementations, coherency between the encrypted and unencrypted mappings of 
the same physical page are not enforced. In such a system, prior to changing the value of the C-bit for 
a page, software should flush the page from all CPU caches in the system. If a hardware 
implementation supports coherency across encryption domains as indicated by CPUID 
Fn8000_001F_EAX[10] then this flush is not required.
Simply changing the value of a C-bit on a page will not automatically encrypt the existing contents of 
a page, and any data in the page prior to the C-bit modification will become unintelligible. To set the 
C-bit on a page and cause its contents to become encrypted so the data remains accessible, see 
Section 7.10.8, “Encrypt-in-Place,” on page 240.
In legacy PAE mode, if the C-bit location is in the upper 32 bits of the page table entry, the first level 
page table (the PDP table) cannot be located in encrypted memory. This is because when the CPU is in 
32-bit PAE mode, the CR3 value is only 32-bits in length.
7.10.7  SMM Interaction
SME is available when the processor is executing in SMM, once it has enabled paging. Any physical 
address bit restrictions that exist due to memory encryption features being enabled remain in place 
while in SMM.
7.10.8  Encrypt-in-Place
It is possible to perform an in-place encryption of data in physical memory. This technique is useful for 
setting the C-bit on a page while maintaining visibility to the page's contents such as during SME 
initialization. This is accomplished by creating two linear mappings of the same page where one 
mapping has the C-bit set to 0 and the other has the C-bit set to 1. To avoid possible data corruption, 
software should use the following algorithm for performing in-place encryption of memory:
1. Create two linear mappings X and Y that map to the same physical page. Mapping X has C-bit=0
and uses the WP (Write Protect) memory type. Mapping Y has C-bit=1 and uses the WB (Write-
Back) memory type.
2. Perform a WBINVD on all cores in the system.
[AMD Public Use]
