Software Debug and Performance Resources
471
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
13.4.7  XSAVE/XRSTOR
LWP requires that the processor support the XSAVE/XRSTOR instructions for managing extended 
processor state components.
13.4.7.1  Configuration
The processor uses bit 62 of XFEATURE_ENABLED_MASK (register XCR0) to indicate whether 
LWP state can be saved and restored, and thus whether LWP is available to applications. The LWP 
XSAVE area length and offset from the beginning of the XSAVE area are available from the CPUID 
instruction (see “Detecting LWP XSAVE Area” on page 452). In Version 1 of LWP, the LWP XSAVE 
area is 128 (080h) bytes long and the offset is 832 (340h) bytes.
13.4.7.2  XSAVE Area
Figure 13-41 below shows the layout of the XSAVE area for LWP. It is large enough to allow for future 
expansion of the number of event counters. Details of the fields are in Table 13-12.
All fields in the XSAVE area that are marked as “Reserved” (or “Rsvd”) must be zero.
29
NRB
No unconditional relative branches.
1—Unconditional relative branches will not be counted. This applies to 
unconditional jumps (JMP), calls (CALL), and returns (RET). Conditional 
branches and indirect jumps or calls through a register or memory are counted 
normally if not disabled via the NCB or NAB bits.
0—Direct branches will be counted if not suppressed by other filter conditions.
Caution: If NRB, NCB, and NAB are all set, no branches will be counted.
Ignored if the Branches Retired event is not enabled.
30
IPI
IP filtering invert.
1—IP filtering inverted. Only instructions outside the range from BaseIP to LimitIP 
are eligible for LWP counting.
0—IP filtering normal. Only instructions inside the range from BaseIP to LimitIP 
are eligible for LWP counting.
Ignored if IPF is zero or if the CPUID LwpIpFiltering bit is 0 to indicate that IP 
filtering is not supported.
31
IPF
IP filtering.
1—IP filtering enabled. The values of the BaseIP and LimitIP fields specify a range 
of instruction addresses that are eligible for LWP event counting and reporting. 
The range is inclusive if IPI is 0 and exclusive if IPI is 1.
0—IP filtering disabled; instructions at every address are eligible for LWP counting.
Ignored if the CPUID LwpIpFiltering bit is 0 to indicate that IP filtering is not 
supported.
Table 13-11.
LWPCB Filters Fields (continued)
Bits
Field
Description
[AMD Public Use]
