196
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
The processor performs a bus lock for any locked read-modify-write operations with a memory type 
other than WB, regardless of alignment.
The processor performs a bus lock for any misaligned locked read-modify-write operations, regardless 
of memory type.  The alignment boundary at which a processor considers an access to be misaligned, 
and thus performs a bus lock instead of a cacheable lock for a locked read-modify-write operation, is 
implementation-dependent.  A bus lock is always performed when an access spans an L1 data cache 
cacheline alignment boundary, but a processor may perform a bus lock at alignment boundaries 
smaller than the L1 data cache cacheline alignment boundary.  The L1 data cache cacheline size and 
alignment boundary is specified by CPUID Fn8000_0005_ECX [L1 Data Cache Identifiers] (bits 7:0).
Atomic read-modify-write operations are performed on behalf of the types of operations listed in 
Table 7-1.
The processor provides several methods for reporting bus lock activity to system software and 
reducing its frequency and performance penalty.  Bus lock trap is described in section 8.2.2 on 
page 248 and section 13.1 on page 391, and SVM Bus Lock Threshold is described in section 15.14.5 
on page 525.
7.4
Memory Types
Memory type is an attribute that can be associated with a specific region of virtual or physical memory. 
Memory type designates certain caching and ordering behaviors for loads and stores to addresses in 
that region. Most memory types are explicitly assigned, although some are inferred by the hardware 
from current processor state and instruction context.
The AMD64 architecture defines the following memory types:
•
Uncacheable (UC)—Reads from, and writes to, UC memory are not cacheable. Reads from UC
memory cannot be speculative. Write-combining to UC memory is not allowed. Reads from or
Table 7-1.
Atomic Read-Modify-Write Operation
Category
Operations
Comments
Software atomic using a 
memory operand  
XCHG, LOCK prefix + ADD, SUB, AND, OR, XOR, 
ADC, SBB, INC, DEC, NOT, NEG, BTC, BTR, BTS, 
XADD, CMPXCHG 
Atomic read-modify-write on 
the memory operand
Segmentation and system 
data structures
LSL, LAR, VERR, VERW, LDS, LES, LFS, LGS, 
LSS, LTR, MOV DS, MOV ES, MOV FS, MOV GS, 
MOV SS, POP DS, POP ES, POP FS, POP GS, POP 
SS, Task switch 
Setting Accessed bit in segment 
or task descriptor or TSS
Far control transfer  
CALL (far), JMP (far), RET (far), IRET, INTn, INT3, 
INT0, INT1, exception or interrupt or trap gate  
Setting Accessed bit in gate 
descriptor
Paging  
Page table walk for instruction fetch or data access 
Setting Accessed or Dirty bit in 
page table entries
[AMD Public Use]
