684
Shadow Stacks
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
1. Check that the incoming SSP is 8-byte aligned, otherwise a #GP exception is generated. The
incoming SSP is located in PLn_SSP (where ‘n’ is the new privilege level: 0, 1, 2), or the ISST
for interrupts/exceptions (see Section 18.6.1, “Shadow Stack Switching,” on page 680).
<Steps 2-6 are performed atomically.>
2. Fetch the 8-byte shadow stack token using the address specified by the incoming SSP (using a
locked load with shadow stack access rights).
3. Check that the shadow stack token reserved bits and the busy bit are 0.
4. Check that the address specified in the shadow stack token matches the incoming SSP.
5. If checks 3 and 4 pass, set the supervisor shadow stack token busy bit (using a store, unlock).
6. If checks 3 or 4 fail, the shadow stack token is not modified and a #GP exception is generated. 
18.6.5  Shadow Stack Token Validation for Inter-privilege RET and IRET
RET (far) and IRET to lower privilege levels validate the shadow stack token located on the current 
supervisor shadow stack before switching shadow stacks. If the token is valid, the token’s busy bit is 
cleared. The processor performs the following steps to validate the token: 
1. Check that the return SSP (located on the current shadow stack) is 4-byte aligned, else a #CP
exception is generated.
<Steps 2-7 are performed atomically.>
2. Fetch the 8-byte shadow stack token from the current shadow stack at SSP+24 (using a locked
load with shadow stack access rights).
3. Check that the busy bit is 1.
4. Check that the reserved bits are 0.
5. Check that the address specified in the shadow stack token matches the SSP.
6. If checks 3 through 5 pass, the shadow stack token busy bit is cleared.
7. If any of checks 3 through 5 fail, the shadow stack token is not modified. A fault is not generated.
18.7
Shadow Stack Operation for SYSCALL and SYSRET
SYSCALL and SYSRET are low-latency system call and return instructions designed for use by 
system and application software implementing a flat-memory model. These instructions do not use the 
program stack to store return addresses, and therefore do not use the shadow stack to validate return 
addresses. However, SYSCALL and SYSRET modify SSP as described below. The Shadow stack 
operations described for SYSCALL and SYSRET also apply to SYSENTER and SYSEXIT 
respectively, although the latter are available only in legacy mode.
The SYSCALL instruction is used by application software executing at CPL=3. When shadow stacks 
are enabled at CPL=3, SYSCALL saves the current SSP to PL3_SSP. SYSCALL changes to CPL=0 
[AMD Public Use]
