Task Management
379
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
12.2.6  Task Gate Descriptor (Legacy Mode Only)
Task-gate descriptors hold a selector reference to a TSS and are used to control access between tasks. 
Unlike a TSS descriptor or other gate descriptors, a task gate can be located in any of the three 
descriptor tables (GDT, LDT, and IDT). Figure 12-9 shows the format of a task-gate descriptor.
Figure 12-9.
Task-Gate Descriptor, Legacy Mode Only
The task-gate descriptor fields are:
•
System (S) and Type—Bits 12 and 11:8 (respectively) of byte +4. These bits are encoded by
software as 00101b to indicate a task-gate descriptor type.
•
Present (P)—Bit 15 of byte +4. The segment-present bit indicates the segment referenced by the
gate descriptor is loaded in memory. If a reference is made to a segment when P=0, a segment-not-
present exception (#NP) occurs. This bit is set and cleared by system software and is never altered
by the processor.
•
Descriptor Privilege-Level (DPL)—Bits 14:13 of byte +4. The DPL field indicates the gate-
descriptor privilege level. DPL can be set to any value from 0 to 3, with 0 specifying the most
privilege and 3 the least privilege.
12.3
Hardware Task-Management in Legacy Mode
This section describes the operation of the task-switch mechanism when the processor is running in 
legacy mode. None of these features are supported in long mode (either compatibility mode or 64-bit 
mode).
12.3.1  Task Memory-Mapping
The hardware task-switch mechanism gives system software a great deal of flexibility in managing the 
sharing and isolation of memory—both virtual (linear) and physical—between tasks.
Segmented Memory.  The segmented memory for a task consists of the segments that are loaded 
during a task switch and any segments that are later accessed by the task code. The hardware task-
switch mechanism allows tasks to either share segments with other tasks, or to access segments in 
isolation from one another. Tasks that share segments actually share a virtual-address (linear-address) 
space, but they do not necessarily share a physical-address space. When paging is enabled, the virtual-
to-physical mapping for each task can differ, as is described in the following section. Shared segments 
31
16 15 14 13 12 11
8
7
0
Reserved, IGN
P
DPL
S
Type
Reserved, IGN
+4
TSS Selector
Reserved, IGN
+0
[AMD Public Use]
