652
Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC)
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
As part of the completion of the interrupt handling routine, software writes a value of zero to the End-
of-Interrupt Register (EOI) in the local APIC, which causes the local APIC to reset the associated ISR 
bit. The EOI register is a write-only register.
If a higher priority interrupt is accepted by the local APIC while the CPU core is servicing another 
interrupt, the higher priority interrupt is sent directly to the CPU core (before the current interrupt 
finishes processing) and the associated ISR bit is set. The CPU core interrupts the current interrupt 
handler to service the higher priority interrupt. When the interrupt handler for the higher priority 
interrupt completes, the associated ISR bit is reset and the interrupt handler returns to complete the 
previous interrupt handler routine. 
Figure 16-28.
End of Interrupt (APIC Offset B0h)
•
End of Interrupt (EOI)—Bits 31:0. Write-only operation signals end of interrupt processing to
source of interrupt.
16.7
SVM Support for Interrupts and the Local APIC
The SVM hypervisor uses the Extended APIC Feature Register, Extended APIC Control Register, 
Specific End of Interrupt Register (SEOI), and Interrupt Enable Register (IER) to control virtualized 
interrupts. When guests have direct access to devices, interrupts arriving at the local APIC can usually 
be dismissed only by the guest that owns the device causing the interrupt. To prevent one guest from 
blocking other guests’ interrupts (by never processing their own), the VMM can mask pending 
interrupts in the local APIC, so they do not participate in the prioritization of other interrupts. 
16.7.1  Specific End of Interrupt Register
Software issues a specific EOI (SEOI) by writing the vector number of the interrupt to the SEOI 
register in the local APIC. The SEOI register is located at offset 420h in the APIC space. The SEOI 
register format is shown in Figure 16-29.
31
0
EOI
Bits
Mnemonic
Description
Access type
31:0
EOI
End of Interrupt
WO
31
8
7
0
Reserved
VECTOR
[AMD Public Use]
