90
Segmented Virtual Memory
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
S Bit and Type Field.  Bit 12 and bits 11:8 of the upper doubleword. The S and Type fields, together, 
specify the descriptor type and its access characteristics. Table 4-2 summarizes the descriptor types by 
S-field encoding and gives a cross reference to descriptions of the Type-field encodings.
Descriptor Privilege-Level (DPL) Field.  Bits 14:13 of the upper doubleword. The DPL field 
indicates the descriptor-privilege level of the segment. DPL can be set to any value from 0 to 3, with 0 
specifying the most privilege and 3 the least privilege. See “Data-Access Privilege Checks” on 
page 106 and “Control-Transfer Privilege Checks” on page 109 for more information on how the DPL 
is used during segment privilege-checks.
Present (P) Bit.  Bit 15 of the upper doubleword. The segment-present bit indicates that the segment 
referenced by the descriptor is loaded in memory. If a reference is made to a descriptor entry when 
P = 0, a segment-not-present exception (#NP) occurs. This bit is set and cleared by system software 
and is never altered by the processor.
Available To Software (AVL) Bit.  Bit 20 of the upper doubleword. This field is available to software, 
which can write any value to it. The processor does not set or clear this field.
Default Operand Size (D/B) Bit.  Bit 22 of the upper doubleword. The default operand-size bit is 
found in code-segment and data-segment descriptors but not in system-segment descriptors. Setting 
this bit to 1 indicates a 32-bit default operand size, and clearing it to 0 indicates a 16-bit default size. 
The effect this bit has on a segment depends on the segment-descriptor type. See “Code-Segment 
Default-Operand Size (D) Bit” on page 92 for a description of the D bit in code-segment descriptors. 
“Data-Segment Default Operand Size (D/B) Bit” on page 94 describes the D bit in data-segment 
descriptors, including stack segments, where the bit is referred to as the “B” bit.
Granularity (G) Bit.  Bit 23 of the upper doubleword. The granularity bit specifies how the segment-
limit field is scaled. Clearing the G bit to 0 indicates that the limit field is not scaled. In this case, the 
limit equals the number of bytes available in the segment. Setting the G bit to 1 indicates that the limit 
field is scaled by 4 Kbytes (4096 bytes). Here, the limit field equals the number of 4-Kbyte blocks 
available in the segment.
Setting a limit of 0 indicates a 1-byte segment limit when G = 0. Setting the same limit of 0 when G = 
1 indicates a segment limit of 4095.
Table 4-2.
Descriptor Types
S Field
Descriptor 
Type
Type-Field Encoding
0 (System)
LDT
See Table 4-5 on page 94
TSS
Gate
1 (User)
Code
See Table 4-3 on page 92
Data
See Table 4-4 on page 93
[AMD Public Use]
