x86 and AMD64 Architecture Differences
29
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
2.4.5  Stack Pointer
In 64-bit mode, the size of the stack pointer, RSP, is always 64 bits. The stack size is not controlled by 
a bit in the SS descriptor, as it is in compatibility or legacy mode, nor can it be overridden by an 
instruction prefix. Address-size overrides are ignored for implicit stack references. 
2.4.6  Control Registers
The AMD64 architecture defines several enhancements to the control registers (CRn). In long mode, 
all control registers are expanded to 64 bits, although the entire 64 bits can be read and written only 
from 64-bit mode. A new control register, the task-priority register (CR8 or TPR) is added, and can be 
read and written from 64-bit mode. Last, the function of the page-enable bit (CR0.PG) is expanded. 
When long mode is enabled, the PG bit is used to activate and deactivate long mode.
2.4.7  Debug Registers
In long mode, all debug registers are expanded to 64 bits, although the entire 64 bits can be read and 
written only from 64-bit mode. Expanded register encodings for the decode registers allow up to eight 
new registers to be defined (DR8–DR15), although presently those registers are not supported by the 
AMD64 architecture.
2.4.8  Extended Feature Register (EFER)
The EFER is expanded by the AMD64 architecture to include a long-mode-enable bit (LME), and a 
long-mode-active bit (LMA). These new bits can be accessed from legacy mode and long mode.
2.4.9  Memory Type Range Registers (MTRRs)
The legacy MTRRs are architecturally defined as 64 bits, and can accommodate the maximum 52-bit 
physical address allowed by the AMD64 architecture. From both long mode and legacy mode, 
implementations of the AMD64 architecture reference the entire 52-bit physical-address value stored 
in the MTRRs. Long mode and legacy mode system software can update all 64 bits of the MTRRs to 
manage the expanded physical-address space.
2.4.10  Other Model-Specific Registers (MSRs)
Several other MSRs have fields holding physical addresses. Examples include the APIC-base register 
and top-of-memory register. Generally, any model-specific register that contains a physical address is 
defined architecturally to be 64 bits wide, and can accommodate the maximum physical-address size 
defined by the AMD64 architecture. When physical addresses are read from MSRs by the processor, 
the entire value is read regardless of the operating mode. In legacy implementations, the high-order 
MSR bits are reserved, and software must write those values with zeros. In legacy mode on AMD64 
architecture implementations, software can read and write all supported high-order MSR bits.
[AMD Public Use]
