Memory System
187
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
7.1
Single-Processor Memory Access Ordering
The flexibility with which memory accesses can be ordered is closely related to the flexibility in which 
a processor implementation can execute and retire instructions. Instruction execution creates results 
and status and determines whether or not the instruction causes an exception. Instruction retirement 
commits the results of instruction execution, in program order, to software-visible resources such as 
memory, caches, write-combining buffers, and registers, or it causes an exception to occur if 
instruction execution created one.
Implementations of the AMD64 architecture retire instructions in program order, but implementations 
can execute instructions in any order, subject only to data dependencies. Implementations can also 
speculatively execute instructions—executing instructions before knowing they are needed. Internally, 
implementations manage data reads and writes so that instructions complete in order. However, 
because implementations can execute instructions out of order and speculatively, the sequence of 
memory accesses performed by the hardware can appear to be out of program order. The following 
sections describe the rules governing memory accesses to which processor implementations adhere. 
These rules may be further restricted, depending on the memory type being accessed. Further, these 
rules govern single processor operation; see “Multiprocessor Memory Access Ordering” on page 189 
for multiprocessor ordering rules.
7.1.1  Read Ordering
Generally, reads do not affect program order because they do not affect the state of software-visible 
resources other than register contents. However, some system devices might be sensitive to reads. In 
such a situation software can map a read-sensitive device to a memory type that enforces strong read-
ordering, or use read/write barrier instructions to force strong read-ordering. 
For cacheable memory types, the following rules govern read ordering:
•
Out-of-order reads are allowed to the extent that they can be performed transparently to software,
such that the appearance of in-order execution is maintained. Out-of-order reads can occur as a
result of out-of-order instruction execution or speculative execution. The processor can read
memory and perform cache refills out-of-order to allow out-of-order execution to proceed.
•
Speculative reads are allowed. A speculative read occurs when the processor begins executing a
memory-read instruction before it knows the instruction will actually complete. For example, the
processor can predict a branch will occur and begin executing instructions following the predicted
branch before it knows whether the prediction is valid. When one of the speculative instructions
reads data from memory, the read itself is speculative. Cache refills may also be performed
speculatively.
•
Reads can be reordered ahead of writes. Reads are generally given a higher priority by the
processor than writes because instruction execution stalls if the read data required by an instruction
is not immediately available. Allowing reads ahead of writes usually maximizes software
performance.
•
A read cannot be reordered ahead of a prior write if the read is from the same location as the prior
write. In this case, the read instruction stalls until the write instruction completes execution. The
[AMD Public Use]
