212
Memory System
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
Note 1: Writes to the following MSRs are not serializing: SPEC_CTRL, PRED_CMD, all x2APIC 
MSRs.
A dispatch serializing instruction is a lighter form of ordering than a serializing instruction. A dispatch 
serializing instruction forces the processor to retire the serializing instruction and all previous 
instructions before the next instruction is executed. In some systems, LFENCE may be configured to 
be dispatch serializing. In systems where CPUID Fn8000_0021_EAX[LFenceAlwaysSerializing](bit 
2) = 1, LFENCE is always dispatch serializing.
7.6.5  Cache and Processor Topology
Cache and processor topology information is useful in the optimal management of system and 
application resources. Exposing processor and cache topology information to the programmer allows 
software to make more efficient use of hardware multithreading resources delivering optimal 
performance. Shared resources in a specific cache and processor topology may require special 
consideration in the optimization of multiprocessing software performance.
The processor topology allows software to determine which cores or logical processors are siblings in 
a compute unit, node, and processor package. For example, a scheduler can then choose to either 
compact or scatter threads (or processes) to cores in compute units, nodes, or across the cores in the 
entire physical package in order to optimize for a power and performance profile.
Topology extensions define processor topology at both the node, compute unit and cache level. 
Topology extensions include cache properties with sharing and the processor topology identified. The 
result is a simplified extension to the CPUID instruction that describes the processors cache topology 
and leverages existing industry cache properties folded into AMD’s topology extension description.
Topology extensions definition supports existing and future processors with varying degrees of cache 
level sharing. Topology extensions also support the description of a simple compute unit with one core 
or packages where the number of cores in a node and/or compute unit are not an even power of two.
CPUID Function 8000_001D: Cache Topology Definition.  CPUID Function 8000_001D describes 
the hierarchical relationships of cache levels relative to the cores which share these resources. 
Function 8000_001D is defined to be called iteratively with the value 8000001Dh in EAX and an 
additional parameter in ECX. To gather information for all cache levels, software must execute the 
CPUID instruction with 8000001Dh in EAX and ECX set to increasing values beginning with 0 until a 
value of 0 is returned from EAX[4:0], which indicates no more cache descriptions.
If software dynamically manages cache configuration, it will need to update any stored cache 
properties for the processor.
CPUID Function 8000_001E: Processor Topology Definition.  CPUID Function 8000_001E 
describes processor topology with component identifiers. To read the processor topology, definition 
software calls the CPUID instruction with the value 8000001Eh in EAX. After execution, the APIC ID 
is represented in EAX. EBX contains the compute unit description in the processor, while ECX 
contains system unique node identification. Software may read this information once for each core.
[AMD Public Use]
