260
Exceptions and Interrupts
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
The exception-mask bits are used by software to specify the handling of SSE floating-point 
exceptions. When the corresponding mask bit is cleared to 0, an exception occurs under the control of 
the CR4.OSXMMEXCPT bit. However, if the mask bit is set to 1, the SSE floating-point unit responds 
in a default manner and execution proceeds normally.
The CR4.OSXMMEXCPT bit specifies the interrupt vector to be taken when an unmasked SSE 
floating-point exception occurs. When CR4.OSXMMEXCPT=1, the #XF interrupt vector is taken 
when an exception occurs. When CR4.OSXMMEXCPT=0, the #UD (undefined opcode) interrupt 
vector is taken when an exception occurs.
The SSE floating-point exceptions reported by the #XF exception are (including mnemonics):
•
IE—Invalid-operation exception (also called #I).
•
DE—Denormalized-operand exception (also called #D).
•
ZE—Zero-divide exception (also called #Z).
•
OE—Overflow exception (also called #O).
•
UE—Underflow exception (also called #U).
•
PE—Precision exception (also called #P or inexact-result exception).
Each type of SSE floating-point exception can be masked by setting the appropriate bits in the 
MXCSR register. #XF can also be disabled by clearing the CR4.OSXMMEXCPT bit to 0. 
Error Code Returned.  None. Exception information is provided by the SSE floating-point MXCSR 
register. See “Instruction Reference” in Volume 4 for more information on using this register.
Program Restart.  #XF is a fault-type exception. Unlike the #MF exception, the #XF exception is 
precise. The saved instruction pointer points to the instruction that caused the #XF.
8.2.20  #CP—Control-Protection Exception (Vector 21)
A #CP exception is generated when shadow stacks are enabled (CR4.CET=1) and any of the following 
situations occur:
•
For RET or IRET instructions, the return addresses on the shadow stack and the data stack do not
match.
•
An invalid supervisor shadow stack token is encountered by the CALL, RET, IRET, SETSSBSY
or RSTORSSP instructions or during the delivery of an interrupt or exception.
•
For inter-privilege RET and IRET instructions, the SSP is not 8-byte aligned, or the previous SSP
from shadow stack is not 4-byte aligned or, in legacy or compatibility mode, is not less than 4GB.
•
A task switch initiated by IRET where the incoming SSP is not aligned to 4 bytes or is not less than
4GB.
Error Code Returned. The #CP error code is pushed onto the control-protection exception-handler 
stack. See Section “Control-Protection Error Code” on page 263 for a description of this error code.
[AMD Public Use]
