Memory System
217
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
range reserved region will not cause the addresses on that page to become cacheable. Instead, a portion 
of the cache will become unusable by any address since the addresses for which that portion of cache is 
reserved cannot be installed in the cache and all other addresses are prevented from being installed 
there.
When Secure Memory Encryption (SME) or Secure Encrypted Virtualization (SEV) is enabled, the L3 
range reservation feature cannot be used on system physical addresses that are encrypted. See “Secure 
Memory Encryption” on page 238 and “Secure Encrypted Virtualization” on page 588 for details. 
Reserving a way of the L3 cache for range reservation exempts those ways from being used by the L3 
QoS Allocation feature. The ways that overlap between any of the L3 QoS Allocation Mask MSRs 
(MSR 0x0000_0C90h through 0x0000_0C9Fh) will be unavailable for use by the L3 QoS Allocation 
feature and only available for use by the L3 Range Reservation feature.
7.7
Memory-Type Range Registers
The AMD64 architecture supports three mechanisms for software access-control and cacheability-
control over memory regions. These mechanisms can be used in place of similar capabilities provided 
by external chipsets used with early x86 processors.
This section describes a control mechanism that uses a set of programmable model-specific registers 
(MSRs) called the memory-type-range registers (MTRRs). The MTRR mechanism provides system 
software with the ability to manage hardware-device memory mapping. System software can 
characterize physical-memory regions by type (e.g., ROM, flash, memory-mapped I/O) and assign 
hardware devices to the appropriate physical-memory type. 
Another control mechanism is implemented as an extension to the page-translation capability and is 
called the page attribute table (PAT). It is described in “Page-Attribute Table Mechanism” on 
page 227. Like the MTRRs, PAT provides system software with the ability to manage hardware-device 
memory mapping. With PAT, however, system software can characterize physical pages and assign 
virtually-mapped devices to those physical pages using the page-translation mechanism. PAT may be 
used in conjunction with the MTTR mechanism to maximize flexibility in memory control.
Finally, control mechanisms are provided for managing memory-mapped I/O. These mechanisms 
employ extensions to the MTRRs and a separate feature called the top-of-memory registers. The 
MTRR extensions include additional MTRR type-field encodings for fixed-range MTRRs and 
variable-range I/O range registers (IORRs). These mechanisms are described in “Memory-Mapped 
I/O” on page 232.
7.7.1  MTRR Type Fields
The MTRR mechanism provides a means for associating a physical-address range with a memory type 
(see “Memory Types” on page 196). The MTRRs contain a type field used to specify the memory type 
in effect for a given physical-address range. 
[AMD Public Use]
