334
System-Management Mode
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
TSeg Address Range Enable (TE)—Bit 1. Specifies whether the TSeg address range is enabled for
protection. When the bit is set to 1, the TSeg address range is enabled for protection. When cleared
to 0, the TSeg address range is disabled for protection.
•
TSeg Mask (MASK)—Bits 51:17. Specifies the mask used to determine the TSeg range of protected
addresses. The physical address is in the TSeg range if the following is true: 
Phys Addr[51:17] & SMM_MASK[51:17] = SMM_ADDR[51:17] & SMM_MASK[51:17].
Note that a processor is not required to implement all 52 bits of the physical address.
10.3
Using SMM
10.3.1  System-Management Interrupt (SMI)
SMM is entered using the system-management interrupt (SMI). SMI is an external non-maskable 
interrupt that operates differently from and independently of other interrupts. SMI has priority over all 
other external interrupts, including NMI (see “Priorities” on page 264 for a list of the interrupt 
priorities). SMIs are disabled when in SMM, which prevents reentrant calls to the SMM handler.
When an SMI is received by the processor, the processor stops fetching instructions and waits for 
currently-executing instructions to complete and write their results. The SMI also waits for all 
buffered memory writes to update the caches or system memory. When these activities are complete, 
the processor uses implementation-dependent external signaling to acknowledge back to the system 
that it has received the SMI.
10.3.2  SMM Operating-Environment
The SMM operating-environment is similar to real mode, except that the segment limits in SMM are 4 
Gbytes rather than 64 Kbytes. This allows an SMM handler to address memory in the range from 0h to 
0FFFF_FFFFh. As with real mode, segment-base addresses are restricted to 20 bits in SMM, and the 
default operand-size and address-size is 16 bits. To address memory locations above 1 Mbyte, the 
SMM handler must use the 32-bit operand-size-override and address-size-override prefixes.
After saving the processor state in the SMRAM state-save area, a processor running in SMM sets the 
segment-selector registers and control registers into a state consistent with real mode. Other registers 
are also initialized upon entering SMM, as shown in Table 10-3.
Table 10-3.
SMM Register Initialization
Register
Initial SMM Contents
CS
Selector
SMBASE right-shifted 4 bits
Base
SMBASE
Limit
FFFF_FFFFh
Attr
Read-Write-Execute
[AMD Public Use]
