Segmented Virtual Memory
87
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
The AMD64 architecture expands the base-address field of the LDTR to 64 bits so that system 
software running in long mode can locate an LDT anywhere in the 64-bit virtual-address space. The 
processor ignores the high-order 32 base-address bits when running in legacy mode. Because the 
LDTR is loaded from the GDT, the system-segment descriptor format (LDTs are system segments) has 
been expanded by the AMD64 architecture in support of 64-bit mode. See “Long Mode Descriptor 
Summary” on page 103 for more information on this expanded format. The high-order base-address 
bits are only loaded from 64-bit mode using the LLDT instruction (see “LLDT and LTR Instructions” 
on page 180 for more information on this instruction).
Limit.  This field defines the limit, or size, of the LDT in bytes. The LDT limit as stored in the LDTR 
is 32 bits. When the LDT limit is loaded from the GDT descriptor entry, the 20-bit limit field in the 
descriptor is expanded to 32 bits and scaled based on the value of the descriptor granularity (G) bit. For 
details on the limit biasing and granularity, see “Granularity (G) Bit” on page 90. 
If an attempt is made to access a descriptor beyond the LDT limit, a general-protection exception 
(#GP) occurs.
The offsets into the descriptor tables are not extended by the AMD64 architecture in support of long 
mode. Therefore, the LDTR limit-field size is unchanged from the legacy size. The processor does 
check the LDT limit in long mode during LDT accesses.
Attributes.  This field holds the descriptor attributes, such as privilege rights, segment presence and 
segment granularity.
4.6.5  Interrupt Descriptor Table
The final type of descriptor table is the interrupt descriptor table (IDT). Multiple IDTs can be 
maintained by system software. System software selects a specific IDT by loading the interrupt 
descriptor table register (IDTR) with a pointer to the IDT. As with the GDT and LDT, system software 
can store the IDT anywhere in memory and should protect the segment containing the IDT from non-
privileged software. 
The IDT can contain only the following types of gate descriptors:
•
Interrupt gates
•
Trap gates
•
Task gates.
The use of gate descriptors by the interrupt mechanism is described in Chapter 8, “Exceptions and 
Interrupts.” A general-protection exception (#GP) occurs if the IDT descriptor referenced by an 
interrupt or exception is not one of the types listed above.
IDT entries are selected using the interrupt vector number rather than a selector value. The interrupt 
vector number is scaled by the interrupt-descriptor entry size to form an offset into the IDT. The 
interrupt-descriptor entry size depends on the processor operating mode as follows:
•
In long mode, interrupt descriptor-table entries are 16 bytes.
[AMD Public Use]
