508
Secure Virtual Machine
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
15.7
Intercept Operation
Various instructions and events (such as exceptions) in the guest can be intercepted by means of 
control bits in the VMCB “VMCB Layout” on page 737. The two primary classes of intercepts 
supported by SVM are instruction and exception intercepts.
Exception intercepts.  Exception intercepts are checked when normal instruction processing must 
raise an exception before resolving possible double-fault conditions and before attempting delivery of 
the exception (which includes pushing an exception frame, accessing the IDT, etc.).
For some exceptions, the processor still writes certain exception-specific registers even if the 
exception is intercepted. (See the descriptions in Section 15.12 and following for details.) When an 
external or virtual interrupt is intercepted, the interrupt is left pending.
When an intercept occurs while the guest is in the process of delivering a non-intercepted interrupt or 
exception using the IDT, SVM provides additional information on #VMEXIT (See Section 15.7.2).
Instruction intercepts.  These occur at well-defined points in instruction execution—before the 
results of the instruction are committed, but ordered in an intercept-specific priority relative to the 
instruction’s exception checks. Generally, instruction intercepts are checked after simple exceptions 
(such as #GP—when CPL is incorrect—or #UD) have been checked, but before exceptions related to 
memory accesses (such as page faults) and exceptions based on specific operand values. There are 
several exceptions to this guideline, e.g., the RSM instruction. Instruction breakpoints for the current 
instruction and pending data breakpoint traps from the previous instruction are designed to be checked 
before instruction intercepts.
15.7.1  State Saved on Exit
When triggered, intercepts write an EXITCODE into the VMCB identifying the cause of the intercept. 
The EXITINTINFO field signals whether the intercept occurred while the guest was attempting to 
deliver an interrupt or exception through the IDT; a VMM can use this information to transparently 
complete the delivery (Section 15.20). Some intercepts provide additional information in the 
EXITINFO1 and EXITINFO2 fields in the VMCB; see the individual intercept descriptions for 
details. 
The guest state saved in the VMCB is the processor state as of the moment the intercept triggers. In the 
x86 architecture, traps (as opposed to faults) are detected and delivered after the instruction that 
triggered them has completed execution. Accordingly, a trap intercept takes place after the execution 
of the instruction that triggered the trap in the first place. The saved guest state thus includes the effects 
of executing that instruction.
Example: Assume a guest instruction triggers a data breakpoint (#DB) trap which is in turn 
intercepted. The VMCB records the guest state after execution of that instruction, so that the saved 
CS:rIP points to the following instruction, and the saved DR7 includes the effects of matching the data 
breakpoint.
[AMD Public Use]
