Exceptions and Interrupts
281
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
8.9
Long-Mode Interrupt Control Transfers
The long-mode architecture expands the legacy interrupt-mechanism to support 64-bit operating 
systems and applications. These changes include:
•
All interrupt handlers are 64-bit code and operate in 64-bit mode.
•
The size of an interrupt-stack push is fixed at 64 bits (8 bytes).
•
The interrupt-stack frame is aligned on a 16-byte boundary.
•
The stack pointer, SS:RSP, is pushed unconditionally on interrupts, rather than conditionally based
on a change in CPL. 
•
The SS selector register is loaded with a null selector as a result of an interrupt, if the CPL changes.
•
The IRET instruction behavior changes, to unconditionally pop SS:RSP, allowing a null SS to be
popped.
•
A new interrupt stack-switch mechanism, called the interrupt-stack table or IST, is introduced.
•
When shadow stacks are enabled, a new shadow stack-switch mechanism, called the Interrupt SSP
Table or ISST, is introduced.
8.9.1  Interrupt Gates and Trap Gates
Only long-mode interrupt and trap gates can be referenced in long mode (64-bit mode and 
compatibility mode). The legacy 32-bit interrupt-gate and 32-bit trap-gate types (0Eh and 0Fh, as 
described in Section “System Descriptors” on page 99) are redefined in long mode as 64-bit interrupt-
gate and 64-bit trap-gate types. 32-bit and 16-bit interrupt-gate and trap-gate types do not exist in long 
mode, and software is prohibited from using task gates. If a reference is made to any gate other than a 
64-bit interrupt gate or a 64-bit trap gate, a general-protection exception (#GP) occurs.
The long-mode gate types are 16 bytes (128 bits) long. They are an extension of the legacy-mode gate 
types, allowing a full 64-bit segment offset to be stored in the descriptor. See Section “Legacy 
Segment Descriptors” on page 88 for a detailed description of the gate-descriptor format and fields. 
8.9.2  Locating the Interrupt Handler
When an interrupt occurs in long mode, the processor multiplies the interrupt vector number by 16 and 
uses the result as an offset into the IDT. The gate descriptor referenced by the IDT offset contains a 
segment-selector and a 64-bit segment-offset field. The gate-descriptor segment-offset field contains 
the complete virtual address for the interrupt handler. The gate-descriptor segment-selector field 
points to the target code-segment descriptor located in either the GDT or LDT. The code-segment 
descriptor is only used for privilege-checking purposes and for placing the processor in 64-bit mode. 
The code segment-descriptor base field, limit field, and most attributes are ignored.
Figure 8-13 shows how the long-mode interrupt handler is located by the interrupt mechanism.
[AMD Public Use]
