438
Software Debug and Performance Resources
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
13.4
Lightweight Profiling
Lightweight Profiling (LWP) is an AMD64 extension that allows user mode processes to gather 
performance data about themselves with very low overhead. LWP is supported in both long mode and 
legacy mode. Modules such as managed runtime environments and dynamic optimizers can use LWP 
to monitor the running program with high accuracy and high resolution. They can quickly discover 
performance problems and opportunities and immediately act on this information.
LWP allows a program to gather performance data and examine it either by polling or by taking an 
occasional interrupt. It introduces minimal additional state to the CPU and the process. LWP differs 
from the existing performance counters and from Instruction Based Sampling (IBS) because it collects 
large quantities of data before taking an interrupt. This substantially reduces the overhead of using 
performance feedback. An application can avoid the need to enable and process interrupts by polling 
the LWP data.
A program can control LWP data collection entirely in user mode. It can start, stop, and reconfigure 
profiling without calling the kernel.
LWP runs within the context of a thread, so it can be used by multiple processes in a system at the same 
time without interference. This also means that if one thread is using LWP and another is not, the latter 
thread incurs no profiling overhead.
LWP can be programmed to run in one of two modes: synchronized mode or continuous mode. In 
synchronized mode the recording of events stops when the buffer set up to hold event records becomes 
full. In continuous mode, the storing of events wraps in the buffer overwriting older records.
13.4.1  Overview
When enabled, LWP hardware monitors one or more events during the execution of user-mode code 
and periodically inserts event records into a ring buffer in the address space of the running process. If 
performance timestamping is supported and enabled, each event record captured is timestamped using 
the value read from the Performance Timestamp Counter (PTSC). Timestamping is enabled by setting 
the Flags.PTSC bit of the Lightweight Profiling Control Block (LWPCB). When the ring buffer is 
filled beyond a user-specified threshold, the hardware can cause an interrupt which the operating 
system (OS) uses to signal a process to empty the ring buffer. With proper OS support, the interrupt 
can even be delivered to a separate process or thread.
LWP only counts instructions that retire in user mode (CPL = 3). Instructions that change to CPL 3 
from some other level are not counted, since the instruction address is not an address in user mode 
space. LWP does not count hardware events while the processor is in system management mode 
(SMM) and while entering or leaving SMM.
Once LWP is enabled, each user-mode thread uses the LLWPCB and SLWPCB instructions to control 
LWP operation. These instructions refer to a data structure in application memory called the 
Lightweight Profiling Control Block, or LWPCB, to specify the profiling parameters and to interact 
[AMD Public Use]
