Segmented Virtual Memory
79
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
4.5.2  Segment Registers
Six 16-bit segment registers are provided for referencing up to six segments at one time. All software 
tasks require segment selectors to be loaded in the CS and SS registers. Use of the DS, ES, FS, and GS 
segments is optional, but nearly all software accesses data and therefore requires a selector in the DS 
register. Table 4-1 on page 79 lists the supported segment registers and their functions.
The processor maintains a hidden portion of the segment register in addition to the selector value 
loaded by software. This hidden portion contains the values found in the descriptor-table entry 
referenced by the segment selector. The processor loads the descriptor-table entry into the hidden 
portion when the segment register is loaded. By keeping the corresponding descriptor-table entry in 
hardware, performance is optimized for the majority of memory references.
Figure 4-4 shows the format of the visible and hidden portions of the segment register. Except for the 
FS and GS segment base, software cannot directly read or write the hidden portion (shown as gray-
shaded boxes in Figure 4-4).
Figure 4-4.
Segment-Register Format
CS Register.  The CS register contains the segment selector referencing the current code-segment 
descriptor entry. All instruction fetches reference the CS descriptor. When a new selector is loaded into 
the CS register, the current-privilege level (CPL) of the processor is set to that of the CS-segment 
descriptor-privilege level (DPL). 
Table 4-1.
Segment Registers
Segment
Register
Encoding
Segment Register Function
ES
/0
References optional data-segment descriptor entry
CS
/1
References code-segment descriptor entry
SS
/2
References stack segment descriptor entry
DS
/3
References default data-segment descriptor entry
FS
/4
References optional data-segment descriptor entry
GS
/5
References optional data-segment descriptor entry
Hidden From Software
513-221.eps
32-Bit Segment Limit
32-Bit Segment Base Address
Segment Attributes
Selector
[AMD Public Use]
