Page Translation and Protection
127
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Finally, system software can use the paging mechanism to map multiple, large virtual-address spaces 
into a much smaller amount of physical memory. Each application can use the entire 32-bit or 64-bit 
virtual-address space. System software actively maps the most-frequently-used virtual-memory pages 
into the available pool of physical-memory pages. The least-frequently-used virtual-memory pages are 
swapped out to the hard drive. This process is known as demand-paged virtual memory.
5.1
Page Translation Overview
The legacy x86 architecture provides support for translating 32-bit virtual addresses into 32-bit 
physical addresses (larger physical addresses, such as 36-bit or 40-bit addresses, are supported as a 
special mode). The AMD64 architecture enhances this support to allow translation of 64-bit virtual 
addresses into 52-bit physical addresses, although processor implementations can support smaller 
virtual-address and physical-address spaces.
Virtual addresses are translated to physical addresses through hierarchical translation tables created 
and managed by system software. Each table contains a set of entries that point to the next-lower table 
in the translation hierarchy. A single table at one level of the hierarchy can have hundreds of entries, 
each of which points to a unique table at the next-lower hierarchical level. Each lower-level table can 
in turn have hundreds of entries pointing to tables further down the hierarchy. The lowest-level table in 
the hierarchy points to the translated physical page. 
Figure 5-1 on page 128 shows an overview of the page-translation hierarchy used in long mode. 
Legacy mode paging uses a subset of this translation hierarchy (the page-map level-4 table does not 
exist in legacy mode and the PDP table may or may not be used, depending on which paging mode is 
enabled). The 5th level of translation, Page Map Level 5, only exists when 5-Level paging is enabled. 
As this figure shows, a virtual address is divided into fields, each of which is used as an offset into a 
translation table. The complete translation chain is made up of all table entries referenced by the 
virtual-address fields. The lowest-order virtual-address bits are used as the byte offset into the physical 
page.
[AMD Public Use]
