244
Exceptions and Interrupts
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
8.1.4  Masking External Interrupts
General Masking Capabilities.  Software can mask the occurrence of certain exceptions and 
interrupts. Masking can delay or even prevent triggering of the exception-handling or interrupt-
handling mechanism when an interrupt-event occurs. External interrupts are classified as maskable or 
nonmaskable:
•
Maskable interrupts trigger the interrupt-handling mechanism only when RFLAGS.IF=1.
Otherwise they are held pending for as long as the RFLAGS.IF bit is cleared to 0.
•
Nonmaskable interrupts (NMI) are unaffected by the value of the RFLAGS.IF bit. However, the
occurrence of an NMI masks further NMIs until an IRET instruction is executed to completion or,
in the event of a task switch, to the completion of the outgoing TSS update. An exception raised
during execution of the IRET prior to these points will result in NMI continuing to be masked for
the duration of the exception handler, until the exception handler completes an IRET.
Masking During Stack Switches.  The processor delays recognition of maskable external interrupts 
and debug exceptions during certain instruction sequences that are often used by software to switch 
stacks. The typical programming sequence used to switch stacks is:
1. Load a stack selector into the SS register.
2. Load a stack offset into the ESP register.
If an interrupting event occurs after the selector is loaded but before the stack offset is loaded, the 
interrupted-program stack pointer is invalid during execution of the interrupt handler. 
To prevent interrupts from causing stack-pointer problems, the processor does not allow external 
interrupts or debug exceptions to occur until the instruction immediately following the MOV SS or 
POP SS instruction completes execution.
The recommended method of performing this sequence is to use the LSS instruction. LSS loads both 
SS and ESP, and the instruction inhibits interrupts until both registers are updated successfully.
8.1.5  Masking Floating-Point and Media Instructions
Any x87 floating-point exceptions can be masked and reported later using bits in the x87 floating-
point status register (FSW) and the x87 floating-point control register (FCW). The floating-point 
exception-pending exception is used for unmasked x87 floating-point exceptions (see Section 
“#MF—x87 Floating-Point Exception-Pending (Vector 16)” on page 257).
The SIMD floating-point exception is used for unmasked SSE floating-point exceptions (see Section 
“#XF—SIMD Floating-Point Exception (Vector 19)” on page 259). SSE floating-point exceptions are 
masked using the MXCSR register. The exception mechanism is not triggered when these exceptions 
are masked. Instead, the processor handles the exceptions in a default manner.
[AMD Public Use]
