Exceptions and Interrupts
289
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
occurs, system software checks the state of the IF image for the current virtual-8086 program to 
determine whether the program is masking interrupts. If the program is masking interrupts, system 
software saves the interrupt information until the virtual-8086 program attempts to re-enable 
interrupts. When the virtual-8086 program unmasks interrupts with an IOPL-sensitive instruction, 
system software traps the action with the #GP handler.
The performance of a processor can be significantly degraded by the overhead of trapping and 
emulating IOPL-sensitive instructions, and the overhead of maintaining images of the IF bit for each 
virtual-8086 program. This performance loss can be eliminated by running virtual-8086 programs 
with IOPL set to 3, thus allowing changes to the real IF flag from any privilege level. Unfortunately, 
this can leave critical system resources unprotected.
In addition to the performance problems caused by virtualizing the IF bit, software interrupts (INTn 
instructions) cannot be masked by the IF bit or virtual copies of the IF bit. The IF bit only affects 
maskable external interrupts. Software interrupts in virtual-8086 mode are normally directed to the 
real mode interrupt vector table (IVT), but it can be desirable to redirect certain interrupts to the 
protected-mode interrupt-descriptor table (IDT). 
The virtual-8086-mode extensions are designed to support both external interrupts and software 
interrupts, with mechanisms that preserve high performance without compromising protection. 
Virtualization of external interrupts is supported using two bits in the EFLAGS register: the virtual-
interrupt flag (VIF) bit and the virtual-interrupt pending (VIP) bit. Redirection of software interrupts is 
supported using the interrupt-redirection bitmap (IRB) in the TSS. A separate TSS can be created for 
each virtual-8086 program, allowing system software to control interrupt redirection independently 
for each virtual-8086 program.
VIF and VIP Extensions for External Interrupts.  When VME extensions are enabled, the IF-
modifying instructions normally trapped by system software are allowed to execute. However, instead 
of modifying the IF bit, they modify the EFLAGS VIF bit. This leaves control over maskable 
interrupts to the system software. It can also be used as an indicator to system software that the virtual-
8086 program is able to, or is expecting to, receive external interrupts. 
When an unmasked external interrupt occurs, the processor transfers control from the virtual-8086 
program to a protected-mode interrupt handler. If the interrupt handler determines that the interrupt is 
for the virtual-8086 program, it can check the state of the VIF bit in the EFLAGS value pushed on the 
stack for the virtual-8086 program. If the VIF bit is set (indicating the virtual-8086 program attempted 
to unmask interrupts), system software can allow the interrupt to be handled by the appropriate virtual-
8086 interrupt handler.
If the VIF bit is clear (indicating the virtual-8086 program attempted to mask interrupts) and the 
interrupt is for the virtual-8086 program, system software can hold the interrupt pending. System 
software holds an interrupt pending by saving appropriate information about the interrupt, such as the 
interrupt vector, and setting the virtual-8086 program's VIP bit in the EFLAGS image on the stack. 
When the virtual-8086 program later attempts to set IF, the previously set VIP bit causes a general-
protection exception (#GP) to occur. System software can then pass the saved interrupt information to 
the virtual-8086 interrupt handler.
[AMD Public Use]
