Segmented Virtual Memory
117
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
•
The target code segment is at a lower privilege (DPLS = 3) than the currently running software
(CPL = 2). Transitions from more-privileged software to less-privileged software are not allowed,
so this privilege check fails as well.
Although all three privilege checks failed in Example 2, failing only one check is sufficient to deny 
access into the target code segment.
Stack Switching.  The processor performs an automatic stack switch when a control transfer causes a 
change in privilege levels to occur. Switching stacks isolates more-privileged software stacks from 
less-privileged software stacks and provides a mechanism for saving the return pointer back to the 
program that initiated the call.
When switching to more-privileged software, as is done when transferring control using a call gate, the 
processor uses the corresponding stack pointer (privilege-level 0, 1, or 2) stored in the task-state 
segment (TSS). The format of the stack pointer stored in the TSS depends on the system-software 
operating mode:
•
Legacy-mode system software stores a 32-bit ESP value (stack offset) and 16-bit SS selector
register value in the TSS for each of three privilege levels 0, 1, and 2. 
•
Long-mode system software stores a 64-bit RSP value in the TSS for privilege levels 0, 1, and 2.
No SS register value is stored in the TSS because in long mode a call gate must reference a 64-bit
code-segment descriptor. 64-bit mode does not use segmentation, and the stack pointer consists
solely of the 64-bit RSP. Any value loaded in the SS register is ignored.
See “Task-Management Resources” on page 367 for more information on the legacy-mode and long-
mode TSS formats.
Figure 4-33 on page 118 shows a 32-bit stack in legacy mode before and after the automatic stack 
switch. This particular example assumes that parameters are passed from the current program to the 
target program. The process followed by legacy mode in switching stacks and copying parameters is:
1. The target code-segment DPL is read by the processor and used as an index into the TSS for
selecting the new stack pointer (SS:ESP). For example, if DPL=1 the processor selects the
SS:ESP for privilege-level 1 from the TSS.
2. The SS and ESP registers are loaded with the new SS:ESP values read from the TSS.
3. The old values of the SS and ESP registers are pushed onto the stack pointed to by the new
SS:ESP.
4. The 5-bit count field is read from the call-gate descriptor. 
5. The number of parameters specified in the count field (up to 31) are copied from the old stack to
the new stack. The size of the parameters copied by the processor depends on the call-gate size:
32-bit call gates copy 4-byte parameters and 16-bit call gates copy 2-byte parameters.
6. The return pointer is pushed onto the stack. The return pointer consists of the current CS-register
value and the EIP of the instruction following the calling instruction.
[AMD Public Use]
