310
Machine Check Architecture
AMD64 Technology
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
•
Implementation-specific Information—Bits 56, 54:45, 42:32. These bit ranges hold model-specific 
error information. Software should not rely on the field definitions in these ranges being consistent 
between processor implementations. For details see the BIOS and Kernel Developer’s Guide or 
Processor Programming Reference Manual for desired implementations of the architecture. 
•
Poison—Bit 43. When set to 1, this bit indicates that the uncorrected error condition being 
reported is due to the attempted use of data that was previous detected as in error (and could not be 
corrected) and marked as known-bad.
•
Deferred—Bit 44. When set to 1, this bit indicates that hardware has determined that the error 
condition being logged has not affected the execution of any instruction stream and that action by 
system software to prevent or correct an error is not required. No machine-check exception is 
signaled. Hardware will monitor the error and log an uncorrected error when the execution of any 
thread of execution is impacted.
•
SYNDV—Bit 53. When set to 1, this bit indicates that the contents of the corresponding syndrome 
register (MCA_SYND) are valid. When this bit is cleared, the contents of MCA_SYND are not 
valid.
•
TCC—Bit 55. When set to 1, this bit indicates that the hardware context of the process thread to 
which the error was reported may have been corrupted. Continued operation of the thread may 
have unpredictable results. When this bit is cleared, the hardware context of the process thread to 
which the error was reported is not corrupted and recovery of the process thread is possible. This 
bit is only meaningful when MCA_STATUS[PCC]=0.
•
PCC—Bit 57. When set to 1, this bit indicates that the processor state is likely to be corrupt due to 
an uncorrected error. In this case, it is possible that software cannot reliably continue execution. 
When this bit is cleared, the processor state is not corrupted and recovery is still possible. If the 
PCC bit is set in any error bank, the processor will clear RIPV and EIPV in the MCG_STATUS 
register.
•
ADDRV—Bit 58. When set to 1, this bit indicates that the contents of the corresponding error-
reporting address register (MCi_ADDR) are valid. When this bit is cleared, the contents of 
MCi_ADDR are not valid.
•
MISCV—Bit 59. When set to 1, this bit indicates that additional information about the error is 
saved in the corresponding error-reporting miscellaneous register (MCi_MISC0). When cleared, 
this bit indicates that the contents of the MCi_MISC0 register are not valid.
•
EN—Bit 60. When set to 1, this bit indicates that the error condition is enabled in the 
corresponding error-reporting control register (MCi_CTL). Errors disabled by MCi_CTL do not 
cause a machine-check exception.
•
UC—Bit 61. When set to 1, this bit indicates that the logged error status is for an uncorrected error. 
When cleared, the error class is determined by looking at the Deferred bit; the error is a Corrected 
error if the Deferred bit is clear or a Deferred error if the Deferred bit is set. (See Section 9.1.2, 
“Error Detection, Logging, and Reporting,” on page 297, for more detail on these error classes.)
•
OVER—Bit 62. This bit is set to 1 by the processor if the VAL bit is already set to 1 as the 
processor attempts to write error information into MCi_STATUS. In this situation, the machine-
check mechanism handles the contents of MCi_STATUS as follows:
[AMD Public Use]
