Software Debug and Performance Resources
413
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
For a given processor, all implemented performance counter registers can be read and written by 
system software running at CPL = 0 using the RDMSR and WRMSR instructions, respectively. The 
architecture also provides an instruction, RDPMC, which may be employed by user-mode software to 
read the architected core, Northbridge, and L2 performance counters.
The RDPMC instruction loads the contents of the architected performance counter register specified 
by the index value contained in the ECX register, into the EDX register and the EAX register. The high 
32 bits are returned in EDX, and the low 32 bits are returned in EAX. RDPMC can be executed only at 
CPL = 0, unless system software enables use of the instruction at all privilege levels. RDPMC can be 
enabled for use at all privilege levels by setting CR4[PCE] (the performance-monitor counter-enable 
bit) to 1. When CR4[PCE] = 0 and CPL > 0, attempts to execute RDPMC result in a general-
protection exception (#GP). For more information on the RDPMC instruction, see the instruction 
reference page in Volume 3 of this manual.
Writing the performance counters can be useful if software wants to count a specific number of events, 
and then trigger an interrupt when that count is reached. An interrupt can be triggered when a 
performance counter overflows (see “Counter Overflow” on page 422 for additional information). 
Software should use the WRMSR instruction to load the count as a two’s-complement negative 
number into the performance counter. This causes the counter to overflow after counting the 
appropriate number of times.
The performance counters are not guaranteed to produce identical measurements each time they are 
used to measure a particular instruction sequence, and they should not be used to take measurements of 
very small instruction sequences. The RDPMC instruction is not serializing, and it can be executed 
out-of-order with respect to other instructions around it. Even when bound by serializing instructions, 
the system environment at the time the instruction is executed can cause events to be counted before 
the counter value is loaded into EDX:EAX. The following sections describe the core performance 
event-select and the Northbridge performance event-select registers.
Core Performance Event-Select Registers
The core performance event-select registers (PerfEvtSeln) are 64-bit registers used to specify the 
events counted by the core performance counters, and to control other aspects of their operation. Each 
performance counter supported by the implementation has a corresponding event-select register that 
controls its operation. Figure 13-11 below shows the format of the core PerfEvtSel register.
[AMD Public Use]
