Shadow Stacks
685
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
before entering the operating system and if shadow stacks are enabled at CPL=0, then SSP is cleared to 
0. 
Unlike other inter-privilege far transfers, SYSCALL does not automatically perform a switch to a 
supervisor shadow stack. If shadow stacks are enabled at CPL=0, prior to executing a CALL 
instruction or similar transfer of control that pushes a return address to the shadow stack, software at 
the OS entry point must ensure that a supervisor shadow stack is available for use. System software 
can use SETSSBSY to set up a supervisor shadow stack.
The operating system uses the SYSRET instruction to return to the application running at CPL=3. If 
shadow stacks are enabled at CPL=3, SYSRET restores SSP from PL3_SSP. Prior to using SYSRET 
to return to the application, system software can use the CLRSSBSY to tear down the supervisor 
shadow stack. Because CLRSSYBSY clears the SSP to 0, system software must ensure that any 
subsequent interrupt or exception that may occur in CPL=0 prior to the SYSRET is configured to use 
the ISST stack-switching mechanism. Otherwise taking an interrupt or exception with SSP=0 will 
likely result in a fault due to SSP wrap-around. 
18.8
Shadow Stack Operation for Task Switches
The legacy x86 task-switch mechanism transfers program control to a new task when any of the 
following control transfers occur:
•
A CALL or JMP instruction references a task gate or TSS descriptor.
•
A software-interrupt instruction (INTn), exception or external interrupt references a task gate. 
•
An IRET is executed when the EFLAGS.NT bit is set to 1.
Shadow stack operations for legacy x86 task switches are summarized in this section. Because the x86 
task management feature is supported by the AMD64 architecture only in legacy mode 
(EFER.LMA=0), the shadow stack operations described below only apply to legacy mode. (See 
“Switching Tasks” on page 380 for more information on task switching). 
When switching to a new task with shadow stacks enabled, the new task must use a 32-bit TSS. The 
SSP for the new task is located at TSS offset 104. Since the SSP is 4 bytes in legacy mode, the TSS 
must be at least 108 bytes in size. The SSP must be aligned to an 8-byte boundary and point to a 
supervisor shadow stack token.
If the task switch is initiated by a CALL/JMP/INTn instruction, or an interrupt or exception:
•
For task switches originating at CPL=3, and if shadow stacks are enabled at that CPL, the current 
SSP is saved to PL3_SSP. Otherwise, for task switches originating at supervisor-level (CPL=0,1,2) 
the current SSP is saved onto the new shadow stack along with current CS and LIP. If shadow 
stacks are enabled at the CPL of the new task, the busy bit is set in the supervisor shadow stack 
token pointed to by the SSP of the incoming task.
If the task switch is initiated by an IRET instruction:
[AMD Public Use]
