Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC)
647
24593—Rev. 3.44—March 2026
AMD64 Technology
Figure 16-22.
Arbitration Priority Register (APIC Offset 90h)
The fields within the Arbitration Priority register are as follows:
•
Arbitration Priority Sub-class (APS)—Bits 3:0. The APS field indicates the current sub-priority to
handle arbitrated interrupts to be serviced by the CPU core.
•
Arbitration Priority (AP)—Bits 7:4. The AP field indicates the current priority to handle arbitrated
interrupts to be serviced by the CPU core. The priority is used to arbitrate between CPU cores to
determine which core accepts a lowest-priority interrupt request. 
The value in the Arbitration Priority field is equal to the highest priority of the Task Priority field of the 
Task Priority Register (TPR), the highest bit set in the In-Service Register (ISR) vector, or the highest 
bit set in the Interrupt Request Register (IRR) vector. The value in the Arbitration Priority Sub-class 
field is equal to the Task Priority Sub-class if the APR is equal to the TPR, and zero otherwise.
If focus CPU core checking is enabled (Spurious Interrupt Register bit 9=0), the focus CPU core for an 
interrupt can always accept the interrupt. A CPU core is the focus of an interrupt if it is already 
servicing that interrupt (corresponding ISR bit is set) or if it already has a pending request for that 
interrupt (corresponding IRR bit is set). If there is no focus CPU core for an interrupt or if focus CPU 
core checking is disabled (Spurious Interrupt Register bit 9=1), all target local APICs identified as 
candidates for the interrupt arbitrate to determine which is executing with the lowest arbitration 
priority. If there is a tie for lowest priority, the local APIC with the highest APIC ID is selected. 
16.6.3  Accepting System and IPI Interrupts
If the local APIC accepting the interrupt determines that the message type for the interrupt request 
indicates SMI, NMI, INIT, STARTUP or ExtINT, it sends the interrupt directly to the CPU core for 
handling. If the message type is fixed or lowest priority, the accepting local APIC places the interrupt 
into an open slot in either the IRR or ISR registers. If there is no free slot, the interrupt is rejected and 
sent back to the sender with a retry request.
Three 256-bit acceptance registers support interrupts accepted by the local APIC. Bits 255:16 
correspond to interrupt vectors 255:16 with 255 being the highest priority; bits 15:0 are reserved. 
•
Interrupt Request Register (IRR), which contains interrupt requests that have been accepted but
have not been sent to the CPU core for interrupt handling. When a system interrupt is accepted, the
associated bit corresponding to the interrupt vector is set in the IRR. When the CPU core requests a
31
8
7
4
3
0
Reserved
AP
APS
Bits
Mnemonic
Description
Access type
31:8
Reserved
MBZ
7:4
AP
Arbitration Priority
RO
3:0
APS
Arbitration Priority Sub-class
RO
[AMD Public Use]
