UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
The HOB producer phase must build the following three HOBs in the initial HOB list before exposing the list
to other modules:
• The PHIT HOB
• A memory allocation HOB describing where the boot-strap processor (BSP) stack for permanent memory
is located
or
A memory allocation HOB describing where the BSP store for permanent memory is located (Itanium®
processor family only)
• A resource descriptor HOB that describes a physical memory range encompassing the HOB producer
phase memory range with its attributes set as present, initialized, and tested
The HOB list creator may build more HOBs into the initial HOB list, such as additional HOBs to describe
other physical memory ranges. There can also be additional modules, which might include a HOB producer
phase-specific HOB to record memory errors discovered during initialization.
When the HOB producer phase completes its list creation, it exposes a pointer to the PHIT HOB to other
modules.
III-4.5.2 HOB Construction Rules
HOB construction must obey the following rules:
1. All HOBs must start with a HOB generic header. This requirement allows users to locate the HOBs in
which they are interested while skipping the rest. See the EFI_HOB_GENERIC_HEADER definition.
2. HOBs may contain boot services data that is available during the HOB producer and consumer phases
only until the HOB consumer phase is terminated.
3. HOBs may be relocated in system memory by the HOB consumer phase. HOBs must not contain pointers
to other data in the HOB list, including that in other HOBs. The table must be able to be copied without
requiring internal pointer adjustment.
4. All HOBs must be multiples of 8 bytes in length. This requirement meets the alignment restrictions of
the Itanium ® processor family.
5. The PHIT HOB must always begin on an 8-byte boundary. Due to this requirement and requirement #4
in this list, all HOBs will begin on an 8-byte boundry
6. HOBs are added to the end of the HOB list. HOBs can only be added to the HOB list during the HOB
producer phase, not the HOB consumer phase.
7. HOBs cannot be deleted. The generic HOB header of each HOB must describe the length of the HOB so
that the next HOB can be found. A private GUIDed HOB may provide a mechanism to mark some or its
entire contents invalid; however, this mechanism is beyond the scope of this document.
Note: The HOB list must be valid (i.e., no HOBs “under construction”) when any HOB producer phase service
is invoked. Another HOB producer phase component’s function might walk the HOB list, and if a HOB header
contains invalid data, it might cause unreliable operation.
III-4.5.3 Adding to the HOB List
To add a HOB to the HOB list, HOB consumer phase software must obtain a pointer to the PHIT HOB (start of
the HOB list) and follow these steps:
1. Determine NewHobSize , where NewHobSize is the size in bytes of the HOB to be created.
III-4.5. Constructing the HOB List
III-92
