UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
SPI flash chips and some SPI UARTs support write then read operations using SPI. The NXP SC16IS750/760 is
an example of a UART designed for I2C and SPI which performs half-duplex operations which are a mix of
transmit and receive.
SPI NOR flash chips such as the Winbond W25Q64FV also perform half-duplex operations which are a mix of
transmit and receive. These operation consist of writing a command byte and possibly an address and then
immediately reading data either from the status register or memory.
SPI Controller Support
Since SPI is inherently full-duplex, the SPI host controller should support full-duplex operation. Not all SPI
controllers however are able to support half-duplex or write-then-read operation. In this case, the SPI bus
layer converts the SPI transaction into a full-duplex transaction by allocating the necessary buffers and if
necessary coping any write data into the new buffer. The SPI bus layer then hands the full-duplex transaction
to the SPI host controller for processing. Upon completion, the SPI bus driver copies any necessary data from
the full-duplex buffers into the SPI peripheral layer’s receive buffer and then frees the allocated full-duplex
buffers. This conversion allows the SPI peripheral drivers to choose transaction types which optimize system
resources and performance in the general case.
SPI Controller To SPI Bus Connection
For DXE, the SPI host controller is identified by the device path. The SPI board layer includes copy of this
device path in the ControllerPath field of the EFI_SPI_BUS structure. When the DXE version of the SPI bus
layer locates an SPI host controller, the SPI bus layer matches the device path for the SPI host controller to
the device field in the ControllerPath of the EFI_SPI_BUS structure in the board layer. Once this connection is
made, the SPI bus layer can create the necessary SPI I/O interfaces.
V-18.1.7 SPI Host Controller Layer
The SPI host controller layer provides a simple interface to the SPI controller. This layer only handles SPI
controller details for a single transaction.
The support at this layer is broken into three primary routines:
• Clock set up
• Chip selection
• Data movement
The SPI bus layer calls these routines to initiate and complete the SPI transaction.
V-18.1.7.1 Legacy SPI Flash Controller
The legacy SPI flash controller is designed to handle SPI NOR flash devices. This controller has several
limitations and several security enhancements that impact the design of the SPI bus I/O layers and the SPI
NOR flash peripheral driver. The security enhancements include:
• BIOS base address
• Protect range registers
• Controller configuration lock
• Prefix type table
• Opcode menu table
• Opcode type table
• BIOS base address
• Protect range registers
V-18.1. Design Discussion
V-245
