UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
I-9.1.2.2 Processor Execution Mode in Itanium ® Processor Family
The PEI Foundation will begin executing after the Security (SEC) phase has completed. The SEC phase
subsumed the System Abstraction Layer entry point (SALE_ENTRY) in Itanium ® architecture. In addition,
the SEC phase makes the appropriate Processor Abstraction Layer (PAL) calls or platform services to enable
the temporary memory store. The SEC passes its handoff state to the PEI Foundation in physical mode with
some configured memory stack, such as the processor cache configured as memory.
I-9.1.2.3 Access to the Boot Firmware Volume (BFV) andother boot-critical FVs
The program that the Security (SEC) phase hands control to is known as the PEI Foundation. PEIMs may
reside in the BFVor other FVs. A “special” PEIM must be resident in the BFV to provide information about the
location of the other FVs.
Each file that is required to boot, in the BFV and other critical FVs (like where the PEI foundation is located),
must be able to be discovered and validated by the PEI phase. This allows the PEI phase to determine if those
FVs have been corrupted.
The PEI Foundation and the PEIMs are expected to be stored in some reasonably tamper-proof (albeit not
necessarily in the strict security-based definition of the term) nonvolatile storage (NVS). The storage is
expected to be fairly analogous to a flat file system with the unique IDs substituting for names. Rules for
using the particular NVS might affect certain storage considerations, but a standard data-only mechanism
for locating PEIMs by ID is required. The PI Architecture describes the PI Firmware Volume format and PI
Firmware File System format, with the GUID convention of naming files. These standards are architectural for
PEI inasmuch as the PEI phase needs to directly support this file system.
The BFV can only be constructed of type EFI_FIRMWARE_FILE_SYSTEM2_GUID.
The PEI Foundation, and some PEIMs required for recovery, must be either locked into a nonupdateable FVor
must be able to be updated via a “fault-tolerant” mechanism. The fault-tolerant mechanism is designed such
that, if the system halts at any point, either the old (preupdate) PEIM or the newly updated PEIM is entirely
valid and that the PEI phase can determine which is valid.
I-9.1.2.4 Access to the Boot Firmware Volume in IA-32Intel Architecture
In IA-32 Intel architecture, the Security (SEC) file is at the top of the Boot Firmware Volume (BFV). This SEC
file will have the 16-byte entry point for IA-32 and restarts at address 0xFFFFFFF0.
I-9.1.2.5 Access to the Boot Firmware Volume in ItaniumProcessor Family
In the Itanium processor family, the microcode starts up the Processor Abstraction Layer A (PAL-A) code,
which is the first layer of PAL code and is provided by the processor vendor, that resides in the Boot Firmware
Volume (BFV). This code minimally initializes the processor and then finds and authenticates the second layer
of PAL code, called PAL-B. The location of both PAL-A and PAL-B can be found by consulting either of the
following:
• The architected pointers in the ROM (near the 4 GiB region)
• The Firmware Interface Table (FIT) pointer in the ROM
The PAL layer communicates with the OEM boot firmware using a single entry point called the System
Abstraction Layer entry point (SALE_ENTRY). The PEI Foundation will be located at the SALE_ENTRY point on
the boot firmware device for an Itanium-based system. The Itanium processor family PEIMs, like other PEIMs,
may reside in the BFV or other firmware volumes. A “special” PEIM must be resident in the BFV to provide
information about the location of the other firmware volumes; this will be described in the context of the
EFI_PEI_FIND_FV_PPI description. It must also be noted that in an Itanium-based system, all the processors
in each node start up and execute the PAL code and subsequently enter the PEI Foundation. The BFV of a
particular node must be accessible by all the processors running in that node. This also means that some of
the PEIMs in the Itanium® architecture boot path will be multiprocessor (MP) aware.
I-9.1. Introduction
I-47
