UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
IV-1.10 MM Traditional Driver Runtime
During MM Driver runtime, MM Drivers only have access to MM protocols. In addition, depending on the
platform architecture, memory areas outside of MMRAM may not be accessible to MM Drivers. Likewise,
memory areas inside of MMRAM may not be accessible to UEFI drivers.
These MM Driver Runtime characteristics lead to several restrictions regarding the usage of UEFI services:
• UEFI interfaces and services which are located during MM Driver Initialization should not be called or
referenced during MM Driver Runtime. This includes the EFI System Table, the UEFI Boot Services and
the UEFI Runtime Services.
• Installed UEFI protocols should be uninstalled before exiting the driver entry point, or the UEFI protocol
should refer to addresses which are not within MMRAM.
• Events created during MM Driver Initialization should be closed before exiting the drier entry point.
IV-1.11 MM Standalone Driver Runtime
During MM Standalone Driver runtime, MM drivers only have access to MM protocols. In addition, depending
on the platform architecture, memory areas outside of MMRAM may not be accessible to MM Drivers.
IV-1.12 Dispatching MMI Handlers
MMI handlers are registered using the MMST’s MmiHandlerRegister() function. MMI handlers fall into three
categories:
RootMMI Controller Handlers
These are handlers for devices which directly control MMI generation for the CPU(s). The handlers
have the ability to detect, clear and disable one or more MMI sources. They are registered by calling
MmiHandlerRegister() with HandlerType set to NULL. After an MMI source has been detected, the Root
MMI handler calls the Child MMI Controllers or MMI Handlers whose handler functions were registered
using either an MM Child Dispatch protocols or using MmiHandlerRegister() . To call the latter, it calls
Manage() with a GUID identifying the MMI source so that any registered Child MMI Handlers or Leaf
MMI Handlers will be called. If the handler returns EFI_INTERRUPT_PENDING , it indicates that the
interrupt source could not be quiesced. If possible, the Root MMI handler should disable and clear
the MMI source. If the handler does not return an error, the Root MMI Handler should clear the MMI
source.
Child MMI Controller Handlers
These are MMI handlers which handle a single interrupt source from a Root or Child MMI handler and,
in turn, control one or more child MMI sources which can be detected, cleared and disabled. They
are registered by calling the MmiHandlerRegister() function with HandlerType set to the GUID of the
Parent MMI Controller MMI source. Handlers for this MMI handler’s MMI sources are called in the same
manner as Root MMI Handlers.
MMI Handlers
These MMI handlers perform basic software or hardware services based on the MMI source received. If
the MMI handler manages a device outside the control of the Parent MMI Controller, it must make sure
that the device is quiesced, especially if the device drives a level-active input.
IV-1.10. MM Traditional Driver Runtime
IV-10
