UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
Related Definitions: The type declarations and constants that are used only by this procedure.
Status Codes Returned: A description of any codes returned by the interface. The procedure is required to
implement any status codes listed in this table. Additional error codes may be returned, but they will not be
tested by standard compliance tests, and any software that uses the procedure cannot depend on any of the
extended error codes that an implementation may provide.
V-1.3.4 Pseudo-Code Conventions
Pseudo code is presented to describe algorithms in a more concise form. None of the algorithms in this
document are intended to be compiled directly. The code is presented at a level corresponding to the
surrounding text.
In describing variables, a list is an unordered collection of homogeneous objects. A queue is an ordered list of
homogeneous objects. Unless otherwise noted, the ordering is assumed to be First In First Out (FIFO).
Pseudo code is presented in a C-like format, using C conventions where appropriate. The coding style, partic-
ularly the indentation style, is used for readability and does not necessarily comply with an implementation
of the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface Specification (UEFI 2.0 specification).
V-1.3.5 Typographic Conventions
This document uses the typographic and illustrative conventions described below:
Plain text The normal text typeface is used for the vast majority of the descriptive text in a specification.
Plain text (blue) In the online help version of this specification, any plain text that is underlined and in blue
indicates an active link to the cross-reference. Click on the word to follow the hyperlink. Note that these links
are not active in the PDF of the specification.
Bold In text, a Bold typeface identifies a processor register name. In other instances, a Bold typeface can be
used as a running head within a paragraph.
Italic In text, an Italic typeface can be used as emphasis to introduce a new term or to indicate a manual or
specification name.
BOLD Monospace Computer code, example code segments, and all prototype code segments use a BOLD
Monospace typeface with a dark red color. These code listings normally appear in one or more separate
paragraphs, though words or segments can also be embedded in a normal text paragraph.
Bold Monospace In the online help version of this specification, words in a Bold Monospace typeface that is
underlined and in blue indicate an active hyperlink to the code definition for that function or type definition.
Click on the word to follow the hyperlink. Note that these links are not active in the PDF of the specification.
Also, these inactive links in the PDF may instead have a Bold Monospace appearance that is underlined but in
dark red. Again, these links are not active in the PDF of the specification.
Italic Monospace In code or in text, words in Italic Monospace indicate placeholder names for variable
information that must be supplied (i.e. arguments). Plain Monospace In code, words in a Plain Monospace
typeface that is a dark red color but is not bold or italicized indicate pseudo code or example code. These
code segments typically occur in one or more separate paragraphs.
V-1.4 Requirements
This document is an architectural specification that is part of the Platform Initialization Architecture (PI
Architecture) family of specifications defined and published by the Unified EFI Forum. The primary intent of
the PI Architecture is to present an interoperability surface for firmware components that may originate from
different providers. As such, the burden to conform to this specification falls both on the producer and the
consumer of facilities described as part of the specification.
V-1.4. Requirements
V-6
