CHAPTER
FOUR
REQUIREMENTS
This document is an architectural specification that is part of the Platform Initialization Architecture (PI
Architecture) family of specifications defined and published by the Unified EFI Forum. The primary intent of
the PI Architecture is to present an interoperability surface for firmware components that may originate from
different providers. As such, the burden to conform to this specification falls both on the producer and the
consumer of facilities described as part of the specification.
In general, it is incumbent on the producer implementation to ensure that any facility that a conforming
consumer firmware component might attempt to use is present in the implementation. Equally, it is incum-
bent on a developer of a firmware component to ensure that its implementation relies only on facilities
that are defined as part of the PI Architecture. Maximum interoperability is assured when collections of
conforming components are designed to use only the required facilities defined in the PI Architecture family
of specifications.
As this document is an architectural specification, care has been taken to specify architecture in ways that
allow maximum flexibility in implementation for both producer and consumer. However, there are certain
requirements on which elements of this specification must be implemented to ensure a consistent and
predictable environment for the operation of code designed to work with the architectural interfaces described
here.
For the purposes of describing these requirements, the specification includes facilities that are required, such
as interfaces and data structures, as well as facilities that are marked as optional.
In general, for an implementation to be conformant with this specification, the implementation must include
functional elements that match in all respects the complete description of the required facility descriptions
presented as part of the specification. Any part of the specification that is not explicitly marked as “optional”
is considered a required facility.
Where parts of the specification are marked as “optional,” an implementation may choose to provide matching
elements or leave them out. If an element is provided by an implementation for a facility, then it must match
in all respects the corresponding complete description.
In practical terms, this means that for any facility covered in the specification, any instance of an implementa-
tion may only claim to conform if it follows the normative descriptions completely and exactly. This does
not preclude an implementation that provides additional functionality, over and above that described in the
specification. Furthermore, it does not preclude an implementation from leaving out facilities that are marked
as optional in the specification.
By corollary, modular components of firmware designed to function within an implementation that conforms
to the PI Architecture are conformant only if they depend only on facilities described in this and related PI
Architecture specifications. In other words, any modular component that is free of any external dependency
that falls outside of the scope of the PI Architecture specifications is conformant. A modular component is not
conformant if it relies for correct and complete operation upon a reference to an interface or data structure
that is neither part of its own image nor described in any PI Architecture specifications.
I-6
