CHAPTER
NINE
PEI FOUNDATION
I-9.1 Introduction
The PEI Foundation centers around the PEI Dispatcher. The dispatcher’s job is to hand control to the PEIMs in
an orderly manner. The PEI Foundation also assists in PEIM-to-PEIM communication. The central resource for
the module-to-module communication involves the PPI. The marshalling of references to PPIs can occur using
the installable or notification interface.
The PEI Foundation is constructed as an autonomous binary image that is of file type EFI_FV_FILETYPE_PEI_
CORE and is composed of the following:
• An authentication section
• A code image that is possibly PE32+
See the Platform Initialization Specification, Volume 3, for information on section and file types. If the code
that comprises the PEI Foundation is not a PE32+ image, then it is a raw binary whose lowest address is the
entry point to the PEI Foundation. The PEI Foundation is discovered and authenticated by the Security (SEC)
phase.
I-9.1.1 Prerequisites
The PEI phase is handed control from the Security (SEC) phase of the PI Architecture-compliant boot process.
The PEI phase must satisfy the following minimum prerequisites before it can begin execution:
• Processor execution mode
• Access to the firmware volume that contains the PEI Foundation
It is expected that the SEC infrastructure code and PEI Foundation are not linked together as a single ROMable
executable image. The entry point from SEC into PEI is not architecturally fixed but is instead dependent on
the PEI Foundation location within FV0, or the Boot Firmware Volume.
I-9.1.2 Processor Execution Mode
I-9.1.2.1 Processor Execution Mode in IA-32 Intel ® Architecture
In IA-32 Intel architecture, the Security (SEC) phase of the PI Architecture is responsible for placing the
processor in a native linear address mode by which the full address range of the processor is accessible for
code, data, and stack. For example, “flat 32” is the IA-32 processor generation mode in which the PEI phase
will execute. The processor must be in its most privileged “ring 0” mode, or equivalent, and be able to access
all memory and I/O space.
This prerequisite is strictly dependent on the processor generation architecture.
I-46
