UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
• NotifyPpi()
I-11.5.2.2 Invoking a PPI
When the PEI Foundation examines a PEIM for dispatch eligibility, it examines the dependency expression
section of the firmware file. If there are non-NULL contents, the Reverse Polish Notation (RPN) expression is
evaluated. Any requested PPI GUIDs in this data structure are queried in the PPI database. The existence in
the database of the particular PUSH_GUID depex opcode leads to this expression evaluating to true.
I-11.5.2.3 Address Resolution
When a PEIM needs to leverage a PPI, it uses the PEI Foundation Service LocatePpi() to discover if an
instance of the interface exists. The PEIM could do either of the following:
• Install the PPI in its depex to ensure that its entry point will not be invoked until the needed PPI is
already installed
• Have a very thin set of code in its entry point that simply registers a notification on the desired PPI.
In the case of either the depex or the notification, the LocatePpi() call will then succeed and the pointer
returned on this call references the EFI_PEI_PPI_DESCRIPTOR . It is through this data structure that the actual
code entry point can be discovered. If this PEIM is being loaded before permanent memory is available, it will
not have resources to cache this discovered interface and will have to search for this interface every time it
needs to invoke the service.
It should also be noted that you cannot uninstall a PPI, so the services will be left in the database. If a PPI
needs to be shrouded, a version can be “reinstalled” that just returns failure.
Also, there is peril in caching a PPI. For example, if you cache a PPI and the producer of the PPI “reinstalls” it to
be something else (i.e., shadows to memory), then you have the possibility that the agent who cached the data
will have “stale” or “illegal” data. For example, imagine the Stall PPI, EFI_PEI_STALL_PPI , relocating itself
to memory using the Load File PPI, EFI_PEI_LOAD_FILE_PPI , and reinstalling the interface for performance
considerations. A way to solve the latter issue, as a platform builder, is by having a different stall PPI for the
memory-based one versus that of the Execute In Place (XIP) one.
I-11.5. PEIM-to-PEIM Communication
I-88
