UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
I-9.7.1.1 Dependency Expression Instruction Set
The following topics describe each of the dependency expression (depex) opcodes in detail. Information
includes a description of the instruction functionality, binary encoding, and any limitations or unique behaviors
of the instruction.
Several of the opcodes require a GUID operand. The GUID operand is a 16-byte value that matches the type
EFI_GUID that is described in Chapter 2 of the UEFI 2.0 specification. These GUIDs represent PPIs that are
produced by PEIMs and the file names of PEIMs stored in firmware volumes. A dependency expression is a
packed byte stream of opcodes and operands. As a result, some of the GUID operands will not be aligned on
natural boundaries. Care must be taken on processor architectures that do allow unaligned accesses.
The dependency expression is stored in a packed byte stream using postfix notation. As a dependency
expression is evaluated, the operands are pushed onto a stack. Operands are popped off the stack to perform
an operation. After the last operation is performed, the value on the top of the stack represents the evaluation
of the entire dependency expression. If a push operation causes a stack overflow, then the entire dependency
expression evaluates to FALSE. If a pop operation causes a stack underflow, then the entire dependency
expression evaluates to FALSE. Reasonable implementations of a dependency expression evaluator should not
make arbitrary assumptions about the maximum stack size it will support. Instead, it should be designed to
grow the dependency expression stack as required. In addition, PEIMs that contain dependency expressions
should make an effort to keep their dependency expressions as small as possible to help reduce the size of the
PEIM.
All opcodes are 8-bit values, and if an invalid opcode is encountered, then the entire dependency expression
evaluates to FALSE.
If an END opcode is not present in a dependency expression, then the entire dependency expression evaluates
to FALSE.
The final evaluation of the dependency expression results in either a TRUE or FALSE result.
% Note
The PEI Foundation will only support the evaluation of dependency expressions that are less than or equal
to 256 terms.
Dependency Expression Opcode Summary is a summary of the opcodes that are used to build dependency
expressions. The following sections describe each of these instructions in detail.
Table 9.1: Dependency Expression Opcode Summary
Opcode
Description
0x02
PUSH <PPI GUID>
0x03
AND
0x04
OR
0x05
NOT
0x06
TRUE
0x07
FALSE
0x08
END
I-9.7. Dependency Expressions
I-57
