UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
V-17.1.2.3.2 Supporting Multiple Hardware Versions
Note that package markings are important to allow the platform integrator to verify the hardware revision
after the part is integrated! The platform integrator includes the hardware revision information into the
EFI_I2C_ENUMERATE_PROTOCOL . The I2C bus driver gets this data during the I2C device enumeration and
makes it available to the third party I2C device driver via the EFI_I2C_IO_PROTOCOL . There are a couple of
ways in which the silicon vendor or third party I2C driver writer may support multiple hardware versions of
the I2C device:
• Provide a different GUID value to the platform integrator for each hardware revision
• Provide a different hardware version value to the platform integrator with the devices
Each of the above methods describes an interface to the I2C device. The interface specifies the number of
slave addresses as well as the features and software workarounds for the I2C device.
V-17.1.2.4 I2C IO Protocol
The I2C IO protocol is platform, host controller, and I2C chip independent.
The I2C bus driver creates a handle for each of the I2C devices returned by the I2C enumerate protocol. The
I2C controller’s device path is extended with the vendor GUID and unique ID value returned by the I2C
enumerate protocol and attached to the handle. The vendor GUID is used to extend the device path with a
Vendor-define Hardware Device Path Node and the unique ID is used to further extend the device path with a
Controller Device Path Node. If the unique ID is 0, then the Controller Device Path Node is optional. The third
party I2C device driver uses the device GUID to determine if it may connect.
When a third party I2C device driver or application calls QueueRequest() , the I2C IO protocol validates the
SlaveAddressIndex (relative I2C address) for the I2C device and then converts the SlaveAddressIndex to a I2C
slave address. The request is then passed to the I2C host protocol along with the tuple BusConfiguration:I2C
slave address.
V-17.1.2.5 I2C Host Protocol
The I2C host protocol is platform, host controller, and I2C chip independent.
% Note
For proper operation of the I2C bus, only the I2C IO protocol and I2C test applications connect to the EFI_
I2C_HOST_PROTOCOL .
The I2C host protocol may access any device on the I2C bus. The I2C host protocol has the following
responsibilities:
• Limits the number of requests to the I2C master protocol to one. The I2C host protocol holds on to
additional requests until the I2C master protocol is available to process the request. The I2C requests
are issued in FIFO order to the I2C master protocol.
• Enable the proper I2C bus configuration before starting the I2C request using the I2C master protocol
I2C devices are addressed as the tuple: BusConfiguration:SlaveAddress. I2C bus configuration zero (0) is the
portion of the I2C bus that connects to the host controller. The bus configuration specifies the control values
for the switches and multiplexers in the I2C bus. After the switches and multiplexers are properly configured,
the I2C controller uses the slave address to access the requested I2C device.
Since the I2C protocol stack supports asynchronous transactions the I2C host protocol maintains a queue of
I2C requests until the I2C controller is available them. When a request reaches the head of the queue the
necessary bus configuration is enabled and then the request is sent to the I2C master protocol.
V-17.1. Design Discussion
V-205
