UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
V-12.4 Requirements
PI Architecture firmware must support platforms with PCI Hot Plug* slots and PCI Express* Hot Plug slots, as
well as CardBus PC Card sockets. In both cases, the user is allowed to plug in new devices or remove existing
devices during runtime. PCI Hot Plug slots are controlled by a PCI Hot Plug controller whereas CardBus
sockets are controlled by a PCI-to-CardBus bridge. PCI Express Hot Plug slots are controlled by a PCI Express
root port or a downstream port in a switch. The term “Hot Plug Controller” (HPC) in this document refers
to all of these types of controllers. From the standpoint of initialization, all three are identical and have the
same general requirements, as follows:
• The root HPCs may come up uninitialized after system reset. These HPCs must be initialized by the
system firmware.
• Every HPC may require resource padding.
The padding must be taken into account during PCI
enumeration. This scenario is true for conventional PCI, PCI Express, and CardBus PC Cards because
they all consume shared system resources (I/O, memory, and bus). These resources are produced by the
root PCI bridge.
These general requirements place the following specific requirements on an implementation of the PI
Architechture PCI hot plug support:
• PI Architecture firmware must handle root HPCs differently than other regular PCI devices. When a
root HPC is initialized, the hot-plug slots or CardBus sockets are enabled and this process may uncover
more PCI buses and devices. In that respect, root HPCs are somewhat like PCI bridges. The root
HPC initialization process may involve detecting bus type and optimum bus speed. The initialization
process may also detect faults and voltage mismatches. The initialization process may be specific to
the controller and the platform. At the time of the root HPC initialization, the PCI bus may not be fully
initialized and the standard PCI bus-specific protocols are not available. PI Architecture firmware must
provide an alternate infrastructure for the initialization code. In other words, the HPC initialization
code should not be required to understand the bus numbering scheme and other chipset details.
• PI Architecture firmware must support an unlimited number of HPCs in the system. PI Architecture
firmware must support various types of HPCs as long as they follow industry standards or conventions.
A mix of various types of HPCs is allowed.
• PI Architecture firmware must support legacy PCI Hot Plug Controllers (PHPCs; class code 0x6, subclass
code 0x4) as well as Standard (PCI) Hot Plug Controllers (SHPCs). Other conventional PCI Hot Plug
controllers are not supported.
• PI Architecture firmware must be capable of supporting a PHPC that is a child of another PHPC. In that
case, the PCI Standard Hot-Plug Controller and Subsystem Specification requires that the child PHPC must
be initialized without firmware assistance because it is not a root PHPC.
• PI Architecture firmware must be capable of supporting SHPCs on an add-in card. In that case, the
PCI Standard Hot-Plug Controller and Subsystem Specification requires that such an SHPC must be
initialized without firmware assistance because it is not a root PHPC. PI Architecture firmware must
also support plug-in CardBus bridges that follow the CardBus Specification, which is part of the PC Card
Standard .
• As stated above, root HPCs may require firmware initialization. PI Architecture firmware must be
capable of supporting root HPCs that are initialized by hardware and do not require any firmware
initialization.
• A PI Architecture PCI bus enumerator must overallocate resources for PCI Hot Plug buses and CardBus
sockets. The amount of overallocation may be platform specific.
• The root HPC initialization process may be time consuming. An SHPC can take as long as 15 seconds to
enable power to a hot-plug bus without violating the PCI Special Interest Group (PCI-SIG*) requirements.
V-12.4. Requirements
V-150
