CHAPTER
SIXTEEN
SPECIAL PATHS UNIQUE TO THE ITANIUM® PROCESSOR FAMILY
I-16.1 Introduction
The Itanium processor family supports the full complement of boot modes listed in the PEI CIS. In addition,
however, Itanium® architecture requires an augmented flow. This flow includes a “recovery check call” in
which all processors execute the PEI Foundation when an Itanium platform restarts. Each processor has its
own version of temporary memory such that there are as many concurrent instances of PEI execution as there
are Itanium processors.
There is a point in the multiprocessor flow, however, when all processors have to call back into the Processor
Abstraction Layer A (PAL-A) component to assess whether the processor revisions and PAL-B binaries are
compatible. This callback into the PAL-A does not preserve the state of the temporary memory, however.
When the PAL-A returns control back to the various processors, the PEI Foundation and its associated data
structures have to be reinstantiated.
At this point, however, the flow of the PEI phase is the same as for IA-32 Intel architecture in that all processors
make forward progress up through invoking the DXE IPL PPI.
I-16.2 Unique Boot Paths for Itanium Architecture
Intel® Itanium processors possess two unique boot paths that also invoke the dispatcher located at the System
Abstraction Layer entry point (SALE_ENTRY):
• Processor INIT
• Machine Check (MCHK)
INIT and MCHK are two asynchronous events that start up the Security (SEC) code/dispatcher in an Itanium®-
based system. The PI Architecture security module is transparent during all the code paths except for the
recovery check call that happens during a cold boot. The PEIMs that handle these events are architecture
aware and do not return control to the PEI Dispatcher. They call their respective architectural handlers in the
operating system.
Itanium Processor Boot Path (INIT and MCHK) shows the boot path for INIT and MCHK events.
I-16.3 Min-State Save Area
When the Processor Abstraction Layer (PAL) hands control to the dispatcher, it will supply the following:
• Unique handoff state in the registers
• A pointer, called the min-state pointer, to the minimum-state saved buffer area
I-178
