CHAPTER
FIFTEEN
PEI PHYSICAL MEMORY USAGE
I-15.1 Introduction
This section describes how physical system memory is used during PEI. The rules for using physical system
memory are different before and after permanent memory registration within the PEI execution.
I-15.2 Before Permanent Memory Is Installed
I-15.2.1 Discovering Physical Memory
Before permanent memory is installed, the minimum exit condition for the PEI phase is that it has enough
physical system memory to run PEIMs and the DXE IPL PPI that require permanent memory. These memory-
aware PEIMs may discover and initialize additional system memory, but in doing so they must not cause loss
of data in the physical system memory initialized during the earlier phase. The required amount of memory
initialized and tested by PEIMs in these two phases is platform dependent.
Before permanent memory is installed, a PEIM may not assume any area of physical memory is present and
initialized. During this early phase, a PEIM—usually one specific to the chipset memory controller—will
initialize and test physical memory. When this PEIM has initialized and tested the physical memory, it will
register the memory using the PEI Memory Service InstallPeiMemory(), which in turn will cause the PEI
Foundation to create an initial Hand- Off Block (HOB) list and describe the memory. The memory that is
present, initialized, and tested will reside in resource descriptor HOBs in the initial HOB list (see Volume 3 for
more information). This memory allocation PEIM may also choose to allocate some of the physical memory
by doing the following:
•
– Creating memory allocation HOBs, as described in :ref: allocating-memory-using-guid-extension-
hobs on page 227 to allocate the memory outside the region registered with InstallPeiMemory()
.
• Using the memory allocation services AllocatePages() and AllocatePool() to allocate the memory
within the region registered with InstallPeiMemory() . Once permanent memory has been installed,
the resources described in the HOB list are considered permanent system memory.
Once permanent memory has been installed, the resources described in the HOB list are considered permanent
system memory.
I-15.2.2 Using Physical Memory
A PEIM that requires permanent, fixed memory allocation must schedule itself to run after EFI_PEI_PERMANENT_
MEMORY_INSTALLED_PPI is installed. To schedule itself, the PEIM can do one of the following:
• Put this PPI’s GUID into the depex of the PEIM.
• Register for a notification.
I-176
