UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
DESCRIPTORs that are in temporary memory will be fixed up by the PEI Foundation to reflect the location of
the EFI_PEI_PPI_DESCRIPTOR’s destination in permanent memory.
The PEI Foundation will invoke the DXE IPL PPI after dispatching all candidate PEIMs. The DXE IPL PPI
may have to allocate additional regions from permanent memory to be able to load and relocate the DXE
Foundation from its firmware store. The DXE IPL PPI will describe these memory allocations in the appropriate
HOB such that when control is passed to DXE, an accurate record of the memory usage will be known to the
DXE Foundation.
I-9.8.2.7 Invoking the PEIM’s Entry Point
The entry point of a PEIM uses the calling conventions specified in the UEFI 2.0 specification, which detail
how parameters are passed to a function. After assessing a PEIM’s dependency expression to see if it can be
invoked, the PEI Foundation will pass control to the PEIM’s entry point. This entry point is a value described
in the PEIM’s image header.
The PEI Foundation will pass an indirect pointer to the PEI Services Table and the handle of the firmware file
when it invokes the PEIM.
In the entry point of the PEIM, the PEIM has the opportunity do the following:
• Locate other PPIs
• Install PPIs that reference services within the body of this PEIM
• Register for a notification
• Upon return from the PEIM’s entry point, it returns back to the PEI Foundation.
• See the Microsoft Portable Executable and Common Object File Format Specification for information on
PE/COFF images; see TE Image for information on TE images.
I-9.8.2.8 Knowing When Dispatcher Tasks Are Finished
The PEI Dispatcher is finished with a pass when it has finished dispatching all the PEIMs that it can. During a
pass, some PEIMs might not have been dispatched if they had requirements that no other PEIM has met.
However, with the weak ordering defined in previous requirements, system RAM could possibly be initialized
before all PEIMs are given a chance to run. This situation can occur because the system RAM initialization
PEIM is not required to consume all resources provided by all other PEIMs. The PEI Dispatcher must recognize
that its tasks are not complete until all PEIMs have been given an opportunity to run.
I-9.8.2.9 Reporting PEI Core Location
If the EFI_PEI_LOADED_IMAGE_PPI is supported by the PEI Dispatcher, then the PEI Foundation must first
report its own location by using the PEI Service InstallPpi() and the EFI_PEI_LOADED_IMAGE_PPI . If the
FileHandle is unknown, then NULL can be used. PEI Foundation must also report the location of the PEIM
loaded by creating the EFI_PEI_LOADED_IMAGE_PPI and call the PEI Service ReinstallPpi() .
I-9.8.3 Example Dispatch Algorithm
The following pseudo code is an example of an algorithm that uses few registers and implements the
requirements listed in the previous section. The pseudo code uses simple C-like statements but more
assembly-like flow-of-control primitives.
The dispatch algorithm’s main data structure is the DispatchedBitMap as described in Example Dispatch Map .
I-9.8. Dispatch Algorithm
I-64
