UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
a little extra work, calling LocateHandleBuffer it is possible to identify the handles which use the SPI driver
GUID and match the EFI_SPI_IO_PROTOCOL interface.
Device paths may also be used to find handles which are attached to a specific SPI host controller. Each SPI
peripheral attaches a HW_CONTROLLER node to the device path.
V-18.1.5.4 Synchronous Operation
All SPI I/O layer transactions are synchronous. No support is provided for asynchronous transactions.
V-18.1.5.5 SPI Transaction Management
The SPI I/O layer allocates a EFI_SPI_BUS_TRANSACTION data structure which contains the parameters that
will be passed to the SPI host controller as part of this SPI transaction. The SPI bus layer uses this structure to
control and complete the SPI transaction.
Synchronizing with the SPI bus layer schedules the SPI transaction on a free SPI host controller.
V-18.1.6 SPI Bus Layer
The SPI bus layer manages the SPI transactions for each of the host’s SPI controllers. SPI peripheral drivers
submit SPI transactions to the SPI bus layer which in turn submits them to the host’s SPI controller.
The SPI transaction consists of:
1. Adjusting the clock speed, polarity and phase for an SPI peripheral
2. Use the chip select to enable the SPI peripheral, signaling the transaction start to the chip
3. Transfer the data in one or both directions simultaneously
4. Remove the chip select from the SPI peripheral signaling the transaction end to the chip
5. Optionally, shutdown the SPI controller’s internal clock to reduce power
The SPI bus layer is responsible setting up the SPI clock and chip select. This ensures that the chip set up is
done properly across all SPI controller drivers. The SPI bus layer uses the SPI chip data from the board layer
to determine the clock phase and polarity. The clock frequency is the lowest frequency specified by:
• Maximum SPI controller clock frequency
• Supported SPI controller clock frequency < = SPI chip maximum clock frequency
• Supported SPI controller clock frequency < = non-zero ClockHz
After setting up the clock, the SPI bus layer asserts the appropriate chip select and then passes the SPI
transaction to the SPI controller to start the data flow in both directions. Upon completion, the SPI bus layer
deasserts the chip select and completes the SPI transaction to the SPI peripheral layer.
V-18.1.6.1 Half Duplex SPI controllers
Various SPI controllers support a half-duplex operation in addition to the full-duplex operation. The benefits
of the half-duplex operation on the system are that less physical memory tied up during the operation and the
memory bandwidth is cut in half for the operation.
It is beneficial to the system for the SPI architecture to support the half duplex operations of the SPI controller.
Additionally it reduces code size and memory footprint by eliminating unnecessary buffers in the SPI peripheral
drivers when half-duplex operations are performed on the SPI chip.
Write Then Read Operations
V-18.1. Design Discussion
V-244
