UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
This document is intended for the following readers:
• BIOS developers, either those who create general-purpose BIOS and other firmware products or those
who modify these products for use in IntelÆ architecture-based products.
• Operating system developers who will be adapting their shrink-wrapped operating system products to
run on Intel architecture-based platforms.
Readers of this specification are assumed to have solid knowledge of the UEFI 2.1 Specification.
V-11.3 PCI Platform Support Related Information
The following publications and sources of information may be useful to you or are referred to by this
specification.
V-11.3.1 Industry Specifications
• Advanced Configuration and Power Interface Specification (hereafter referred to as the ACPI Specifica-
tion), version 3.0.
V-11.3.2 PCI Specifications
• Conventional PCI Specification, version 3.0: http://www.pcisig.com*
• PCI-to-PCI Bridge Architecture Specification, revision 1.2: http://www.pcisig.com*
• PCI-to-PCI Bridges and CardBus Controllers on Windows 2000, Windows XP, and Windows Server 2003:
http://www.microsoft.com/whdc/system/bus/PCI/pcibridge-cardbus.mspx*
V-11.4 PCI Platform Protocol
V-11.4.1 PCI Platform Protocol Overview
“PCI Host Bridge Resource Allocation Protocol”, Section V-10.3 defines and describes the PCI Host Bridge
Resource Allocation Protocol. The PCI Host Bridge Resource Allocation Protocol driver provides chipset-
specific functionality that works across processor architectures and unique platform features. It does not
address issues where an implementation varies across platforms.
In contrast, the PCI Override Protocol and PCI Platform Protocol provide interfaces allow a platform driver or
codebase driver to perform platform-specific actions. For example:
• Allow a PCI bus driver to obtain platform policy. The platform can use this protocol to control whether
the PCI bus driver reserves I/O ranges for ISA aliases and VGA aliases. The default policy for the PCI bus
driver is to reserve I/O ranges for both ISA aliases and VGA aliases, which may result in a large amount
of I/O space being unavailable for PCI devices. This protocol allows the platform driver to change this
policy.
• Call a platform driver at various points in the enumeration phase. The platform driver can use these
hooks to perform various platform-specific activities. Examples of such activities include but are not
limited to the following:
• PlatformPrepController() can be used to program the PCI subsystem vendor ID and device ID into
onboard and chipset devices.
• PlatformPrepController() and PlatformNotify() can be used for implementing hardware workarounds.
• PlatformPrepController() can be used for preprogramming any backside registers that control the Base
Address Register (BAR) window sizes.
V-11.3. PCI Platform Support Related Information
V-137
