CHAPTER
ELEVEN
EXTENDED SAL SERVICES
This document describes the Extended SAL support for the EDK II. The Extended SAL uses a calling convention
that is very similar to the SAL calling convention. This includes the ability to call Extended SAL Procedures in
physical mode prior to SetVirtualAddressMap() , and the ability to call Extended SAL Procedures in physical
mode or virtual mode after SetVirtualAddressMap() .
IV-11.1 SAL Overview
The Extended SAL can be used to implement the following services:
• SAL Procedures required by the Intel Itanium Processor Family System Abstraction Layer Specification.
• EFI Runtime Services required by the UEFI 2.0 Specification , that may also be required by SAL Procedures,
other Extended SAL Procedures, or MCA, INIT, and PMI flows.
• Services required to abstract hardware accesses from SAL Procedures and Extended SAL Procedures.
This includes I/O port accesses, MMIO accesses, PCI Configuration Cycles, and access to non-volatile
storage for logging purposes.
• Services required during the MCA, INIT, and PMI flows.
% Note
Arguments to SAL procedures are formatted the same as arguments and paramenters in this document.
Example “ address parameter to . . . ”
The Extended SAL support includes a DXE Protocol that supports the publishing of the SAL System Table
along with services to register and call Extended SAL Procedures. It also includes a number of standard
Extended SAL Service Classes that are required to implement EFI Runtime Services, the minimum set of
required SAL Procedures, services to abstract hardware accesses, and services to support the MSA, INIT,
and PMI flows. Platform developer may define addition Extended SAL Service Classes to provide platform
specific functionality that requires the Extended SAL calling conventions.The SAL calling convention requires
operation in both physical and virtual mode. Standard EFI runtime services work in either physical mode or
virtual mode at a time. Therefore, the EFI code can call the SAL code, but not vice versa. To reduce code
duplication resulting out of multiple operating modes, additional procedures called Extended SAL Procedures
are implemented. Architected SAL procedures are a subset of the Extended SAL procedures. The individual
Extended SAL procedures can be called through the entry point ExtendedSalProc() in the EXTENDED_SAL_
BOOT_SERVICE_PROTOCOL . The cost of writing dual mode code is that one must strictly follow the SAL
runtime coding rules. Experience on prior IPF platform shows us that the benefits outweigh the cost.
IV-127
