CHAPTER
TEN
MCA/INIT/PMI PROTOCOL
This document defines the basic plumbing required to run the MCA, PMI & INIT in a generic framework. They
have been group together since MCA and INIT follows a very similar flow and all three have access to the
min-state as defined by PAL.
It makes an attempt to bind the platform knowledge by the way of generic abstraction to the SAL MCA, PMI
& INIT code. We have tried to create a private & public data structures for each CPU. For example, any CPU
knowledge that should remain within the context of that CPU should be private. Any CPU knowledge that
may be accessed by another CPU should be a Global Structure that can be accessed by any CPU for that
domain. There are some flags that may be required globally (Sal Proc, Runtime Services, PMI, INIT, MCA) are
made accessible through a protocol pointer that is described in section 5.
IV-10.1 Machine Check and INIT
This section describes how Machine Check Abort Interrupt and INIT are handled in a UEFI 2.0 compliant
system.
As shown in Early Reset, MCA and INIT flow resets, MCA and INIT follow a near identical early flow. For all
three events, PAL first processes the event, save some states if needed in the min-state before jumping to SAL
through the common SALE_ENTRY entry point. SAL performs some early processor initialization, save some
extra states to set up an environment in which the event can be handled and then branch to the appropriate
event dispatcher (normal reset flow, MCA, INIT).
MCA/INIT handling per say consists of a generic dispatcher and one or more platform specific handlers. The
dispatcher is responsible for handling tasks specified in SAL specification, such as performing rendezvous,
before calling the event handlers in a fixed order. The handlers are responsible for error logging, error
correction and any other platform specific task required to properly handle a MCA or INIT event.
IV-10.2 MCA Handling
The machine check (MCA) code path in a typical machine based on IPF architecture is shown in the diagram
below (see Basic MCA processing flow).
MCA processing starts in PAL, running in physical mode. Control is then pass to SAL through the SALE_ENTRY
entry point which in turn, after processing the MCA, pass control to the OS MCA handler.
In the PI architecture, OEMs have the choice to process MCA events in either entirely in ROM code, entirely
in the RAM code or partly in ROM and partly in RAM. The early part of the MCA flow follow the SEC->PEI
boot flow, with SALE_ENTRY residing in SEC while the MCA dispatcher is a PEIM dispatcher (see PI MCA
processing flow). From that point on the rest of the code can reside in ROM or RAM.
When PAL hands off control to SALE_ENTRY, it will supply unique hand off state in the processor registers
as well as the minimum state saved buffer area pointer called “min-state pointer”. The min-state pointer is
IV-117
