UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
• Support platform specific security policies for DXE driver execution. The DXE Dispatcher is required
to use the services of the Security Architecture Protocol every time a firmware volume is discovered and
every time a DXE driver is loaded.
When a new firmware volume is discovered, it is first authenticated with the Security Architectural Protocol.
The Security Architectural Protocol provides the platform-specific policy for validating all firmware volumes.
Then, a search is made for the a priori file. The a priori file has a fixed file name, and it contains the list of
DXE drivers that should be loaded and executed first. There can be at most one a priori file per firmware
volume, and it is legal to have zero a priori files in a firmware volume. Once the DXE drivers from the a priori
file have been loaded and executed, the dependency expressions of the remaining DXE drivers in the firmware
volumes are evaluated to determine the order that they will be loaded and executed. The a priori file provides
a strongly ordered list of DXE drivers that are not required to use dependency expressions. The dependency
expressions provide a weakly ordered execution of the remaining DXE drivers.
The DXE Dispatcher loads the image using LoadImage() with the FilePath parameter pointing ot the firmware
volume from which the image is located.
Before each DXE driver is executed, it must be authenticated through the Security Architectural Protocol. The
Security Architectural Protocol provides the platform-specific policy for validating all DXE drivers.
Control is transferred from the DXE Dispatcher to the BDS Architectural Protocol after the DXE drivers in the
a priori file and all the DXE drivers whose dependency expressions evaluate to TRUE have been loaded and
executed. The BDS Architectural Protocol is responsible for establishing the console devices and attempting
the boot of operating systems. As the console devices are established and access to boot devices is established,
additional firmware volumes may be discovered. If the BDS Architectural Protocol is unable to start a console
device or gain access to a boot device, it will reinvoke the DXE Dispatcher. This will allow the DXE Dispatcher
to load and execute DXE drivers from firmware volumes that have been discovered since the last time the
DXE Dispatcher was invoked. Once the DXE Dispatcher has loaded and executed all the DXE drivers it can,
control is once again returned to the BDS Architectural Protocol to continue the OS boot process.
II-10.3 The A Priori File
The a priori file is a special file that may be present in a firmware volume. The a priori file format described
herein must be supported if the DXE Foundation implementation also supports 3rd party firmware volumes.
The rule is that there may be at most one a priori file per firmware volume present in a platform. The a
priori file has a known GUID file name, so the DXE Dispatcher can always find the a priori file if it is present.
Every time the DXE Dispatcher discovers a firmware volume, it first looks for the a priori file. The a priori file
contains the list of DXE drivers from that firmware volume that should be loaded and executed before any
other DXE drivers are discovered. The DXE drivers listed in the a priori file are executed in the order that
they appear. If any of those DXE drivers have an associated dependency expression, then those dependency
expressions are ignored. The a priori file provides a deterministic execution order of DXE drivers. DXE drivers
that are executed solely based on their dependency expression are weakly ordered. This means that the
execution order is not completely deterministic between boots or between platforms. There are cases where a
deterministic execution order is required. One example would be to list the DXE drivers required to debug
the rest of the DXE phase in the a priori file. These DXE drivers that provide debug services may have been
loaded much later if only their dependency expressions were considered. By loading them earlier, more of the
DXE Foundation and DXE drivers can be debugged. Another example is to use the a priori file to eliminate
the need for dependency expressions. Some embedded platforms may only require a few DXE drivers with a
highly deterministic execution order. The a priori file can provide this ordering, and none of the DXE drivers
would require dependency expressions. The dependency expressions do have some amount of size overhead,
so this method may reduce the size of firmware images. The main purpose of the a priori file is to provide a
greater degree of flexibility in the firmware design of a platform.
See the next topic for the GUID definition of the a priori file, which is the file name that is stored in a firmware
volume.
II-10.3. The A Priori File
II-75
