UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
I-9.8 Dispatch Algorithm
I-9.8.1 Overview
I-9.8.1.1 Ordering Algorithm
The dispatch algorithm repeatedly scans through the PEIMs to find those that have not been dispatched.
For each PEIM that is found, it scans through the PPI database of PPIs that have been published, searching
for elements in the yet-to-be-dispatched PEIM’s depex. If all of the elements in the depex are in the PEI
Foundation’s PPI database, the PEIM is dispatched. The phase terminates when all PEIMs are scanned and
none dispatched.
% Note
The PEIM may be dispatched without a search if its depex is NULL.
I-9.8.1.2 Multiple Firmware Volume Support
In order to expose a new firmware volume, a PEIM should install an instance of EFI_PEI_FIRMWARE_VOLUME_
INFO_PPI containing the firmware volume format GUID, the starting address and the size of the firmware
volume’s window. PEIMs exposing firmware volumes which have a firmware volume format other than the PI
Architecture Firmware Volume format should include the firmware volume format GUID in their dependency
expression.
PEIMs exposing memory-mapped firmware volumes should create a memory resource descriptor HOB for the
memory occupied by the firmware volume if it is outside of the PEI memory.
For each new exposed firmware volume, the PEI Foundation will take the following steps:
1. Create a new firmware volume handle. The firmware volume handle may be created by the PEI
Foundation or by the optional EFI_PEI_FIRMWARE_VOLUME_PPI.
2. Create a new firmware volume HOB.
3. If the firmware volume’s format (identified by its GUID) is not supported directly by the PEI Foundation
and it is not supported by any installed EFI_PEI_FIRMWARE_VOLUME_PPI , the firmware volume is skipped.
4. Otherwise, all PEIMs in the firmware volume are scheduled for dispatching.
5. Find the a priori file, if it exists, and dispatch any PEIMs listed in it.
I-9.8.2 Requirements
I-9.8.2.1 Requirements of a Dispatching Algorithm
The dispatching algorithm must meet the following requirements:
1. Preserve the dispatch weak ordering.
2. Prevent an infinite loop.
3. Control processor resources.
4. Preserve proper dispatch order.
5. Make use of available memory.
6. Invoke each PEIM’s entry point.
7. Know when the PEI Dispatcher tasks are finished.
I-9.8. Dispatch Algorithm
I-62
