UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
V-17.1.3 PCI Comparison
PCI provides several features to describe the device to the operating system as well decoupling the driver
from the specific platform.
V-17.1.3.1 Device Description
PCI uses the Vendor ID and Device ID fields in configuration space to identify the piece of hardware. Where
the Vendor ID is assigned by the PCI committee and the Device ID is assigned by the hardware manufacture.
PCI also uses the Base Class , Sub Class and Programming Interface fields to help identify the operating system
driver.
The I2C protocol stack uses the vendor GUID associated with the I2C device to identify the UEFI driver. This
GUID is supplied by the silicon vendor or third party I2C driver writer to the platform integrator and gets
included in the I2C platform driver. The EFI_I2C_ENUMERATE_PROTOCOL provides this GUID to the I2C bus
driver during the I2C bus enumeration.
The driver binding protocol’s Supported() routine of the third party I2C device driver looks for controllers
which have the EFI_I2C_IO_PROTOCOL and have a match for the vendor GUID.
V-17.1.3.2 Hardware Features and Workarounds
PCI provides a Revision ID field to allow the driver to determine which version of hardware is present and
which features and software workarounds are necessary to support this device.
The I2C protocol stack uses the HardwareRevision field in the EFI_I2C_IO_PROTOCOL for this same purpose.
It is recommended that this value match the _HRV value in the DSDT for this I2C device. See the Advanced
Configuration and Power Interface Specification, Revision 5.0 for the field format and the Plug and play support
for |I2C| web-page for restriction on values.
V-17.1.3.3 Device Relative Addressing
PCI provides Base Address Registers (BARs) to decouple the device driver software from the details of the
platform’s PCI bus configuration. Typically, all device register references are fixed offsets from one of the BAR
addresses.
The I2C protocol stack provides a similar mechanism using an index into an array of slave addresses. The
silicon vendor or third party driver writer provides the structure of the array listing the major functions to the
platform integrator. An example is:
0: Accelerometer
1: Compass
The platform integrator works with the platform’s hardware designer to get the I2C slave addresses of the I2C
device and builds the array which is included in the platform specific code. During I2C device enumeration,
this array is passed to the I2C bus driver for use by the I2C IO protocol.
The third party I2C driver references the major components within the I2C device using the index values, thus
remaining platform independent. The I2C IO protocol performs the array lookup, translating the index into
an actual slave address on the I2C bus.
Most I2C devices only have a single I2C slave address and thus the third party I2C device driver will only use
index zero (0). Also depending upon the I2C device architecture, the silicon vendor or third party I2C device
writer may choose to write multiple drivers, each supporting a single I2C slave address.
V-17.1. Design Discussion
V-207
