CHAPTER
FOUR
HOB DESIGN DISCUSSION
III-4.1 Explanation of HOB Terms
Because HOBs are the key architectural mechanism that is used to hand off system information in the early
preboot stages and because not all implementations of the PI Architecture will use the Pre-EFI Initialization
(PEI) and Driver Execution Environment (DXE) phases, this specification refrains from using the PEI and DXE
nomenclature used in other PI specifications.
Instead, this specification uses the following terms to refer to the phases that deal with HOBs:
• HOB producer phase
• HOB consumer phase
The HOB producer phase is the preboot phase in which HOBs and the HOB list are created. The HOB consumer
phase is the preboot phase to which the HOB list is passed and then consumed.
If the PI Architecture implementation incorporates the PEI and DXE, the HOB producer phase is the PEI phase
and the HOB consumer phase is the DXE phase. The producer and consumer can change, however, depending
on the implementation.
The following table translates the terminology used in this specification with that used in other PI specifications.
Table 4.1: Translation of HOB Specification Terminology
Term Used in the HOB Specification
Term Used in Other PI Specifications
HOB producer phase
PEI phase
HOB consumer phase
DXE phase
executable content in the HOB producer phase
Pre EFI Initialization Module (PEIM)
hand-off into the HOB consumer phase
DXE Initial Program Load (IPL) PEIM or DXE IPL
PEIM to PEIM Interface (PPI)
platform boot policy phase
Boot Device Selection (BDS) phase
III-4.2 HOB Overview
The HOB producer phase provides a simple mechanism to allocate memory for data storage during the phase’s
execution. The data store is architecturally defined and described by HOBs. This data store is also passed to
the HOB producer phase when it is invoked from the HOB producer phase.
The basic container of data storage is named a Hand-Off Block, or HOB. HOBs are allocated sequentially in
memory that is available to executable content in the HOB producer phase. There are a series of services that
facilitate HOB manipulation. The sequential list of HOBs in memory will be referred to as the HOB list.
III-90
