CHAPTER
TEN
DXE DISPATCHER
II-10.1 Introduction
After the DXE Foundation is initialized, control is handed to the DXE Dispatcher. The DXE Dispatcher examines
every firmware volume that is present in the system. Firmware volumes are either declared by HOBs, or they
are declared by DXE drivers. For the DXE Dispatcher to run, at least one firmware volume must be declared
by a HOB.
The DXE Dispatcher is responsible for loading and invoking DXE drivers found in firmware volumes. Some
DXE drivers may depend on the services produced by other DXE drivers, so the DXE Dispatcher is also required
to execute the DXE drivers in the correct order. The DXE drivers may also be produced by a variety of different
vendors, so the DXE drivers must describe the services they depend upon. The DXE dispatcher must evaluate
these dependencies to determine a valid order to execute the DXE drivers. Some vendors may wish to specify
a fixed execution order for some or all of the DXE drivers in a firmware volume, so the DXE dispatcher must
support this requirement.
The DXE Dispatcher will ignore file types that it does not recognize.
In addition, the DXE Dispatcher must support the ability to load “emergency patch” drivers. These drivers
would be added to the firmware volume to address an issue that was not know at the time the original
firmware was built. These DXE drivers would be loaded just before or just after an existing DXE driver.
Finally, the DXE Dispatcher must be flexible enough to support a variety of platform specific security policies
for loading and executing DXE drivers from firmware volumes. Some platforms may choose to run DXE
drivers with no security checks, and others may choose to check the validity of a firmware volume before
it is used, and other may choose to check the validity of every DXE driver in a firmware volume before it is
executed.
II-10.2 Requirements
The DXE Dispatcher must meet the following requirement:
• Support fixed execution order of DXE drivers. This fixed execution order is specified in an a priori file
in the firmware volume.
• Determine DXE driver execution order based on each driver’s dependencies. A DXE driver that
is stored in a firmware volume may optionally contain a dependency expression section. This section
specifies the protocols that the DXE driver requires to execute.
• Support “emergency patch” DXE drivers. The dependency expressions are flexible enough to describe
the protocols that a DXE drivers may require. In addition, the dependency expression can declare that
the DXE driver is to be loaded and executed immediately before or immediately after a different DXE
driver.
II-74
