UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
tested by standard compliance tests, and any software that uses the procedure cannot depend on any of the
extended error codes that an implementation may provide.
I-3.3 Instruction Descriptions
A dependency expression instruction description generally has the following format:
InstructionName The formal name of the instruction.
Syntax: A brief description of the instruction.
Description: A description of the functionality provided by the instruction accompanied by a table that details
the instruction encoding.
Operation: Details the operations performed on operands.
Behaviors and Restrictions: An item-by-item description of the behavior of each operand involved in the
instruction and any restrictions that apply to the operands or the instruction.
I-3.4 PPI Descriptions
A PEIM-to-PEIM Interface (PPI) description generally has the following format:
PPI Name: The formal name of the PPI.
Summary: A brief description of the PPI.
GUID: The 128-bit Globally Unique Identifier (GUID) for the PPI.
Protocol Interface Structure: A “C-style” procedure template defining the PPI calling structure.
Parameters: A brief description of each field in the PPI structure.
Description: A description of the functionality provided by the interface, including any limitations and
caveats of which the caller should be aware.
Related Definitions: The type declarations and constants that are used only by this interface.
Status Codes Returned: A description of any codes returned by the interface. The PPI is required to
implement any status codes listed in this table. Additional error codes may be returned, but they will not be
tested by standard compliance tests, and any software that uses the procedure cannot depend on any of the
extended error codes that an implementation may provide.
I-3.5 Pseudo-Code Conventions
Pseudo code is presented to describe algorithms in a more concise form. None of the algorithms in this
document are intended to be compiled directly. The code is presented at a level corresponding to the
surrounding text.
In describing variables, a list is an unordered collection of homogeneous objects. A queue is an ordered list of
homogeneous objects. Unless otherwise noted, the ordering is assumed to be First In First Out (FIFO).
Pseudo code is presented in a C-like format, using C conventions where appropriate. The coding style, partic-
ularly the indentation style, is used for readability and does not necessarily comply with an implementation
of the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface Specification (UEFI 2.0 specification).
I-3.3. Instruction Descriptions
I-5
