UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
Parameters
A brief description of each field in the procedure prototype.
Description
A description of the functionality provided by the interface, including any limitations and caveats of
which the caller should be aware.
Related Definitions
The type declarations and constants that are used only by this procedure.
Status Codes Returned
A description of any codes returned by the interface. The procedure is required to implement any status
codes listed in this table. Additional error codes may be returned, but they will not be tested by standard
compliance tests, and any software that uses the procedure cannot depend on any of the extended error
codes that an implementation may provide.
II-1.4.4 Instruction Descriptions
A dependency expression instruction description generally has the following format:
InstructionName
The formal name of the instruction.
Syntax
A brief description of the instruction.
Description
A description of the functionality provided by the instruction accompanied by a table that details the
instruction encoding.
Operation
Details the operations performed on operands.
Behaviors and Restrictions
An item-by-item description of the behavior of each operand involved in the instruction and any
restrictions that apply to the operands or the instruction.
II-1.4.5 Pseudo-Code Conventions
Pseudo code is presented to describe algorithms in a more concise form. None of the algorithms in this
document are intended to be compiled directly. The code is presented at a level corresponding to the
surrounding text.
In describing variables, a list is an unordered collection of homogeneous objects. A queue is an ordered list of
homogeneous objects. Unless otherwise noted, the ordering is assumed to be First In First Out (FIFO).
Pseudo code is presented in a C-like format, using C conventions where appropriate. The coding style, partic-
ularly the indentation style, is used for readability and does not necessarily comply with an implementation
of the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface Specification (UEFI 2.0 specification).
II-1.4.6 Typographic Conventions
This document uses the typographic and illustrative conventions described below:
Plain text
The normal text typeface is used for the vast majority of the descriptive text in a specification.
Plain text (blue)
In the online help version of this specification, any plain text that is underlined and in blue indicates an
II-1.4. Conventions Used in this Document
II-4
