UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
1. The timing registers in a PATA IDE controller are vendor specific. (See ATA Host Adapter Standards
, Working Draft Version 0f, for more information.) The programming of these registers needs to be
abstracted from the driver entity.
2. The IDE Controller Initialization Protocol should also support a case where a specific channel is disabled
and/or it should not be scanned. This protocol also needs a mechanism to address individual devices in
various SATA and PATA configurations. This protocol needs to support the following:
3. “A variable number of channels per controller
4. “A variable number of devices per channel
V-7.2.3.1.1 PATA Controllers
PATA controllers support up to two channels and each channel can have a maximum of two devices.
V-7.2.3.1.2 SATA Contollers
SATA controllers can support standard ATA emulation. As described in the Serial ATA Specification 1.0a , ATA
emulation can either be master-only emulation or master-slave emulation. In either case, the SATA controller
appears to have one or two channels. In master-only emulation, a maximum of one drive appears on a
channel. In master-slave emulation, one or two drives can show up behind a channel.
When an SATA controller is operating in Advanced Host Controller Interface (AHCI) mode, it can support up
to 32 ports. The SATA port that is generated by an SATA controller can host an SATA port multiplier. There
can be up to 16 SATA devices on the other side of the SATA port multiplier.
In this geometry, each SATA port that is generated by the SATA controller is treated as a channel, and this
channel can have up to 16 devices. This is done so that PATA drives as well as SATA drives can be represented
using a ( Channel , Device ) address pair. Note that the SATA channels work very differently from PATA
channels in the sense that the SATA channels do not have the concept of master/slave or daisy chaining.
See Figure 2 1 and Figure 2 2 below for explanations how the devices are addressed.
V-7.2.3.1.3 Bus Neutral
It should be possible to use the same abstractions to support an IDE controller on the PCI bus or some other
bus. The IDE controller driver will know which controller devices it can support. Because the majority of IDE
controllers that exist today are located on the PCI bus, all the examples will refer to PCI IDE controllers, but
the protocol is not tied to the PCI bus.
V-7.2.3.2 PCI IDE controller
PCI IDE controllers can operate in native PCI mode or compatibility mode. The IDE Controller Initialization
Protocol should permit both modes.
The design should use the EFI Driver Model to support the quick boot feature. The smallest unit of initialization
is one channel. By default, the driver entity initializes only the channel on which the user-requested drive
resides. The IDE Controller Initialization Protocol should support the case where various channels share the
same hardware bits and cannot be independently enumerated. The controller driver can specify that all the
channels should be enumerated as one unit.
The IDE Controller Initialization Protocol must support SATA controllers that may or may not implement AHCI
register interface.
V-7.2. Design Discussion
V-34
