CHAPTER
FOURTEEN
SUPER I/O AND ISA HOST CONTROLLER INTERACTIONS
V-14.1 Design Descriptions
The PI architecture provides a means to interact in a standard fashion with Super I/O devices. For the
purposes of this specification, the Super I/O is a device residing on an ISA or LPC or similar bus that consumes
I/O and/or memory resources and provides multiple standard logical devices, such as PC/AT compatible
floppy, serial port, parallel port, keyboard or mouse. There may be more than one of these devices behind
each of the ISA/LPC buses.
Mouse, Floppy, Serial and keyboard Drivers
The Mouse, Floppy, Serial and Keyboard drivers are UEFI driver-model drivers that support devices produced
by the Super I/O component. When started, they use the optional SIO Control protocol to enable the logical
device, to produce the standard UEFI protocols used for console or booting, such as Serial I/O or Block I/O.
They typically examine the device paths on the child handles created by the Super I/O drivers for the ACPI
device path nodes that refer to their devices (e.g. PNP0501, PNP0303, etc.).
Super I/O Driver
The Super I/O driver consists of a UEFI driver-model driver (in DXE) and PEIM (in PEI) that supports a Super
I/O component. The Super I/O components support multiple logical devices, such as the PS/2 keyboard
controller, a floppy controller or serial/IrDa controller. When started, the Super I/O driver verifies it is present
on the board and produces child handles for each of the logical devices that are enabled. On each child handle
it installs an instance of the Device Path protocol, the SIO protocol and the SIO Control protocol.
ISA Bus Driver
The ISA Bus driver consists of a UEFI driver-model driver (DXE only) that produces the ISA Host Controller
Service Binding protocol, which manages the many-to-one relationship between Super I/O drivers in the
system and an ISA Host Controller.
ISA Host Controller Driver
The ISA Host Controller driver is a DXE driver that supports a PCI-ISA or PCI-LPC bridge component. It
creates a child handle that represents the ISA Bus and installs the ISA Host Controller protocol and the Device
Path protocol with an ACPI device path node (PNP0A05/PNP0A06).
PCD
The Platform Configuration Database (PCD) provides configuration information about the device configuration.
Information concerning configured I/O addresses can be placed into the PCD by platform drivers and then
used by the various silicon drivers, including SIO to find base addresses and logical device configuration.
V-170
