UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
Table 1.1: Organization of the DXE CIS
Book
Description
Overview
Describes the major components of DXE, including the boot manager,
firmware core, protocols, and requirements.
Boot Manager
Describes the boot manager, which is used to load UEFI drivers, UEFI
applications, and UEFI OS loaders.
UEFI System Table
Describes the DXE Service table.
Services - Boot Services
Describes specific event types for DXE Foundation.
Runtime Capabilities
Contains definitions of a runtime protocol for status code support.
Services - DXE Services
Contains definitions for the fundamental services that are present in a
DXE-compliant system before an OS is booted.
Protocols - Device Path Protocol
Defines the device path extensions required by the DXE Foundation.
DXE Foundation
Describes the DXE Foundation that consumes HOBs, Firmware Vol-
umes, and DXE Architectural Protocols to produce an UEFI System
Table, UEFI Boot Services, UEFI Runtime Services, and the DXE Ser-
vices.
DXE Dispatcher
Describes the DXE Dispatcher that is responsible for loading and exe-
cuting DXE drivers from Firmware Volumes.
DXE Drivers
Describes the different classes of DXE drivers that may be stored in
Firmware Volumes.
DXE Architectural Protocols
Describes the Architectural Protocols that are produced by DXE drivers.
They are also consumed by the DXE Foundation to produce the UEFI
Boot Services, UEFI Runtime Services, and DXE Services.
DXE Runtime Protocols
Lists success, error, and warning codes returned by DXE and UEFI
interfaces.
Dependency Expression Grammar
Describes the BNF grammar for a tool that can convert a text file
containing a dependency expression into a dependency section of a
DXE driver stored in a Firmware Volume.
II-1.3 Target Audience
This document is intended for the following readers:
• IHVs and OEMs who will be implementing DXE drivers that are stored in firmware volumes.
• BIOS developers, either those who create general-purpose BIOS and other firmware products or those
who modify these products for use in various vendor architecture-based products.
II-1.4 Conventions Used in this Document
This document uses the typographic and illustrative conventions described below.
II-1.4.1 Data Structure Descriptions
Supported processors are “little endian” machines. This distinction means that the low-order byte of a
multibyte data item in memory is at the lowest address, while the high-order byte is at the highest address.
Some supported processors may be configured for both “little endian” and “big endian” operation. All
implementations designed to conform to this specification will use “little endian” operation.
In some memory layout descriptions, certain fields are marked reserved. Software must initialize such fields to
zero and ignore them when read. On an update operation, software must preserve any reserved field.
II-1.3. Target Audience
II-2
