CHAPTER
SIX
OVERVIEW
The Pre-EFI Initialization (PEI) phase of the PI Architecture specifications (hereafter referred to as the “PI
Architecture”) is invoked quite early in the boot flow. Specifically, after some preliminary processing in the
Security (SEC) phase, any machine restart event will invoke the PEI phase.
The PEI phase will initially operate with the platform in a nascent state, leveraging only on-processor resources,
such as the processor cache as a call stack, to dispatch Pre-EFI Initialization Modules (PEIMs). These PEIMs
are responsible for the following:
• Initializing some permanent memory complement
• Describing the memory in Hand-Off Blocks (HOBs)
• Describing the firmware volume locations in HOBs
• Passing control into the Driver Execution Environment (DXE) phase
Philosophically, the PEI phase is intended to be the thinnest amount of code to achieve the ends listed above.
As such, any more sophisticated algorithms or processing should be deferred to the DXE phase of execution.
The PEI phase is also responsible for crisis recovery and resuming from the S3 sleep state. For crisis recovery,
the PEI phase should reside in some small, fault-tolerant block of the firmware store. As a result, it is
imperative to keep the footprint of the PEI phase as small as possible. In addition, for a successful S3 resume,
the speed of the resume is of utmost importance, so the code path through the firmware should be minimized.
These two boot flows also speak to the need to keep the processing and code paths in the PEI phase to a
minimum.
The implementation of the PEI phase is more dependent on the processor architecture than any other phase.
In particular, the more resources the processor provides at its initial or near initial state, the richer the interface
between the PEI Foundation and PEIMs. As such, there are several parts of the following discussion that note
requirements on the architecture but are otherwise left architecturally dependent.
I-6.1 Design Goals
The PI Architecture requires the PEI phase to configure a system to meet the minimum prerequisites for the
Driver Execution Environment (DXE) phase of the PI Architecture. In general, the PEI phase is required to
initialize a linear array of RAM large enough for the successful execution of the DXE phase elements.
The PEI phase provides a framework to allow vendors to supply separate initialization modules for each
functionally distinct piece of system hardware that must be initialized prior to the DXE phase of execution in
the PI Architecture. The PEI phase provides a common framework through which the separate initialization
modules can be independently designed, developed, and updated. The PEI phase was developed to meet the
following goals in the PI architecture:
• Enable maintenance of the “chain of trust.” This includes protection against unauthorized updates to
the PEI phase or its modules, as well as a form of authentication of the PEI
I-10
