UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
I-9.6 Ordering
I-9.6.1 Requirements
Except for the order imposed by an a priori file, it is not reasonable to expect PEIMs to be executed in any
order. A chipset initialization PEIM usually requires processor initialization and a memory initialization PEIM
usually requires chipset initialization. On the other hand, the PEIMs that satisfy these requirements might
have been authored by different organizations and might reside in different FVs. The requirement is thus to,
without memory, create a mechanism to allow for the definition of ordering among the different PEIMs so
that, by the time a PEIM executes, all of the requirements for it to execute have been met.
Although the update and build processes assist in resolving ordering issues, they cannot be relied upon
completely. Consider a system with a removable processor card containing a processor and firmware volume
that plugs into a main system board. If the processor card is upgraded, it is entirely reasonable that the user
should expect the system to work even though no update program was executed.
I-9.6.2 Requirement Representation and Notation
Requirements are represented by GUIDs, with each GUID representing a particular requirement.
The
requirements are represented by two sets of data structures:
• The dependency expression (depex) of a given PEIM
• The installed set of PPIs maintained by the PEI Foundation in the PPI database
This mechanism provides for a “weak ordering” among PEIMs. If PEIMs A and B consume X (written AcX and
BcX), once a PEIM (C) that produces X (CpX) is executed, A and B can be executed. There is no definition
about the order in which A and B are executed.
I-9.6.3 PEI a priori File Overview
The PEI a priori file is a special file that may optionally be present in a firmware volume, and its main purpose
is to provide a greater degree of flexibility in the firmware design of a platform. Specifically, the a priori file
complements the dependency expression mechanism of PEI by stipulating a series of modules which need be
dispatched in a prescribed order.
There may be at most one PEI a priori file per firmware volume present in a platform. The a priori file has a
known GUID file name PEI_APRIORI_FILE_NAME_GUID, enabling the PEI Foundation dispatch behavior to find
the a priori file if it is present. The contents of the file shall contain data of the format PEI_APRIORI_FILE_
CONTENTS, with possibly zero entries. Every time the PEI Dispatcher discovers a firmware volume, it first looks
for the a priori file. The PEIM’s enumerated in a an a priori file must exist in the same firmware volume as the
a priori file iteself; no cross-volume mapping is allowed. The PEI Foundation will invoke the PEIM’s listed in
the PEI_APRIORI_FILE_CONTENTS in the order found in this file.
Without the a priori file, PEIMs executed solely because of their dependency expressions are weakly ordered.
This means that the execution order is not completely deterministic between boots or between platforms. In
some cases a deterministic execution order is required. The PEI a priori file provides a deterministic execution
order of PEIMs using the following two implementation methods.
The a priori model must be supported by all PEI Foundation implementations, but it does not preclude
additional a priori dispatch methodologies, as long as the latter models use a different mechanism and/or file
name GUID for the alternate a priori module listing. The a priori file format follows below.
I-9.6. Ordering
I-54
