UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
Table 17.2: Self-Test State Bit Values
State
Value
Description
Catastrophic Failure
N/A
Processor is not executing.
Healthy
00
No failure in functionality or performance.
Performance Restricted
01
No failure in functionality but performance is re-
stricted.
Functionally Restricted
10
Some code may run but functionality is restricted
and performance may also be affected.
If the state field indicates that the processor is functionally restricted, then the vm, ia, and fp fields in the
Health flag specify additional information about the functional failure. See Health Flag Bit Field Description
for a description of these fields.
To further qualify “Functionally Restricted,” the following requirements will be met:
• The processor or PAL (for the Itanium processor family) has detected and isolated the failing component
so that it will not be used.
• The processor must have at least one functioning memory unit, arithmetic logic unit (ALU), shifter, and
branch unit.
• The floating-point unit may be disabled.
• For the Itanium processor family, the Register Stack Engine (RSE) is not required to work, but register
renaming logic must work properly.
• The paths between the processor-controlled caches and the register files must work during the tests.
• Loads from the firmware address space must work correctly.
I-17.6 Processor-Specific Details
I-17.6.1 SEC Phase in IA-32 Intel Architecture
In 32-bit Intel® architecture (IA-32), the Security (SEC) phase of the PI Architecture is responsible for several
activities:
• Locating the PEI Foundation
• Passing control directly to PEI using an architecturally defined handoff state
• Initializing processor-controlled memory resources, such as the processor data cache, that can be used
as a linear extent of memory for a call stack (if supported)
PEI Initialization Steps in IA-32 below shows the steps completed during PEI initialization for IA-32.
Fig. 17.2: PEI Initialization Steps in IA-32
I-17.6. Processor-Specific Details
I-186
