UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
• “All the devices on all the channels behind an IDE controller. This enumeration grouping may arise
because multiple channels share some hardware registers or have some other dependencies. In
this case, the number of enumeration groups is 1.
The IDE controller indicates the type of enumeration group that is applicable. In case 2, the driver entity
must enumerate all the devices on all the channels if there is a request to configure a single device. In
case 1, the driver entity must enumerate all the devices on the same channel if there is a request to
configure a single device. Case 1 will lead to faster boot.
IDE controller
The hardware device that produces one or more IDE buses (channels). Each channel can host one or
more IDE devices.
PATA
Parallel ATA.
PATA controller
An IDE controller that supports PATA devices. Traditionally, a PATA controller supports up to two
channels: primary and secondary. Each channel traditionally supports up to two devices: master and
slave.
SATA
Serial ATA.
SATA controller
An IDE controller that supports the SATA driver. SATA controllers can emulate PATA behavior. The
behavior of command and control block registers, PIO and DMA data transfers, resets, and interrupts
are all emulated. In addition, SATA controllers can implement a more modern register interface, namely
AHCI. AHCI allows the host software to overcome the limitations that are imposed by PATA emulation
and to use advanced SATA features.
Some chipsets contain both PATA and SATA controllers and support a combined mode. In combined
mode, the two controllers are logically merged into one controller. The PATA drives can appear behind
the SATA controller to the host software. In such a mode, all the PATA rules in terms of IDE timing
configuration apply to SATA controllers.
V-7.2.2 IDE Controller Initialization Protocol References
The following sources of information are referenced in this specification or may be useful to you.
• “ ATA Host Adapter Standards , Working Draft Version of: http://www.t13.org/*
• “ Information Technology - AT Attachment with Packet Interface - 6 (ATA/ATAPI-6): http://www.t13.org/*
• Serial ATA Advanced Host Controller Interface (AHCI) Specification , version 1.0: http://developer.intel.
com/technology/serialata/ahci.htm
• Serial ATA: High Speed Serialized AT Attachment , revision 1.0a (may also be referred to as Serial ATA
Specification 1.0a): http://www.serialata.org/*
• “ Serial ATA II: Port Multiplier Specification , revision 1.1: http://www.serialata.org/*
V-7.2.3 Background
V-7.2.3.1 IDE Requirements
The IDE Controller Initialization Protocol is designed to work for both Parallel ATA (PATA) and Serial ATA
(SATA) IDE controllers.
This protocol is designed with the following requirements in mind:
V-7.2. Design Discussion
V-33
