UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
PeimMckhHandlerChecksum
A 64-bit checksum across the contents of the PEIM’s MCHK handler. This can be used by the PEI
firmware to corroborate the integrity of the MCHK handler prior to invocation.
TypeOfOSBooted
Details the type of operating system that was originally booted. This allows for different preliminary
processing in firmware based upon the target OS.
MinStateReserved
Reserved bytes that must not be interpreted by OEM firmware. Future versions of PEI may choose to
expand in this range.
OEMReserved
Reserved bytes for the OEM. PEI core components should not attempt to interpret the contents of this
region.
Description
A 64-bit PEI data pointer is defined at the beginning of the Itanium processor family min-state data structure.
This data pointer references an EFI_PEI_MIN_STATE_DATA structure that is defined above. This latter structure
contains the entry points of INIT and MCHK code blocks. The pointers are defined such that the INIT and
MCHK code can be either written as ROM-based PEIMs or as DXE drivers. The distinction between PEIM and
DXE driver are at the OEM’s discretion.
In Itanium® architecture, the PEI firmware must register a min-state with the PAL. This min-state is memory
when the PAL code can deposit processor-specific information upon various restart events (INIT, RESET,
Machine Check). Upon receipt of INIT or MCHK, the PEI firmware shall first invoke the PEIM INIT or MCHK
handlers, respectively, and then the OS INIT or MCHK handler. The min-state data structure is a natural
location from which to reference the PEI data structure that contains these latter entry points.
I-16.4 Dispatching Itanium Processor Family PEIMs
The Itanium processor family dispatcher starts dispatching all the PEIMs as it resolves the dependency
grammar contained within their headers. Because all Itanium processors enter into SALE_ENTRY for a
recovery check, some of the PEIMs will contain multiprocessor (MP) code and will work on all processors.
The behavior of a particular PEIM that is dispatched depends on the following:
• Handoff state given by the Processor Abstraction Layer (PAL)
• The boot mode flag
Once the processor runs some code and one of the recovery check PEIM determines that the firmware needs
to be recovered, it flips the boot flag to recovery and invokes the dispatcher again in recovery mode.
If it is a nonrecovery situation (normal boot), then the recovery check PEIM wakes up all the processors
and returns them to PAL-A for further initialization. Note that when control for a normal boot returns back
to the PAL to run PAL-B code, all of the register contents are lost. When control returns to the dispatcher,
the PEIMs gain control in the dispatched order and can determine the memory topology (if needed in a
platform implementation) by reading the memory controller registers of the chipset. The PEIMs can then
build Hand-Off Blocks (HOBs).
When the first phase is done, there will be coherent memory on the system that all the node processors can
see. The system then begins to execute the dispatcher in a second phase, during which it builds HOBs. On a
multinode system with many processors, the configuration of memory may take several steps and therefore
quite a bit of code.
When the second phase is done, the last PEIM will build DXE as described in PEI to DXE Handoff and hand
control to the PI Architecture DXE phase for further initialization of the platform.
I-16.4. Dispatching Itanium Processor Family PEIMs
I-181
