UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
V-18.1.4 SPI Peripheral Layer
This layer provides vendor specific interfaces to the SPI chips. The upper interface to the SPI peripheral layer
is chip specific and determined by the UEFI or Pl specifications where there is a standard or by the chip vendor
when a standard does not exist.
The lower interface of the SPI peripheral layer connects to one or more of the SPI peripherals exposed by the
SPI bus layer as an EFI_SPI_IO_PROTOCOL instance. The SPI peripheral driver interacts with the SPI chip by
issuing data transactions to the SPI bus layer. These transactions make their way to the SPI controller layer
where they are placed onto the SPI bus and data is exchanged with the SPI chip.
V-18.1.5 SPI I/O Interface
The SPI bus layer creates an EFI_SPI_IO_PROTOCOL instance for each SPI chip listed in the board layer.
However unlike other protocols, the EFI_SPI_IO_PROTOCOL instance is identified by a GUID that is unique
to the SPI chip driver to which it should connect. This differs from other bus protocols which produce a
bus-specific GUID.
The rational behind this is decision is based upon:
1. No common device support
2. Performance and code size
3. SPI device enumeration performed infrequently
V-18.1.5.1 No Common Device Support
With other protocols such as PCI and USB, even though the devices differ, there is a common hardware
support layer for peripheral identity, resource allocation and attaching the device to the bus. SPI chips differ
in this respect because there are no hardware standards! Bus attachment is done by the board developer at a
hardware level. From a software viewpoint as soon as chip select is asserted, the SPI chip is on the bus. Also
with SPI there are no common commands that may be issued to identify or enable the chip. As such there is
no advantage exposing the EFI_SPI_IO_PROTOCOL with a generic GUID.
V-18.1.5.2 Performance and Code Size
Times have changed since UEFI was originally architected and implemented. In todays world, the firmware
engineers are being asked for sub-one-second boot times and a smaller firmware footprint with more
functionality. Using a generic GUID for the EFI_SPI_IO_PROTOCOL requires that each SPI peripheral driver
implement more code to verify some other identifier to determine if the driver should use this device. This
additional check adds cost and complexity to the SPI peripheral driver. The costs are the development time to
implement and debug the code as well as the CPU time to execute the code. This code also has a multiplicative
effect on the firmware footprint.
V-18.1.5.3 SPI Device Enumeration Performed Infrequently
The claim is that SPI device enumeration will be performed infrequently.
• How often is SPI device enumeration a necessary operation?
• Is it a requirement that this operation be done using a generic GUID for EFI_SPI_IO_PROTOCOL ?
• What are the use cases for this operation?
Eliminating the generic GUID for EFI_SPI_IO_PROTOCOL removes one way of doing SPI device enumeration.
However SPI device enumeration is still possible.
SPI device enumeration is easiest done using the EFI_SPI_CONFIGURATION_PROTOCOL . From this protocol
is possible to determine the SPI buses in the system and the devices which are attached to these buses. With
V-18.1. Design Discussion
V-243
