CHAPTER
ELEVEN
DXE DRIVERS
II-11.1 Introduction
The DXE architecture provides a rich set of extensible services that provides for a wide variety of different
system firmware designs. The DXE Foundation provides the generic services required to locate and execute
DXE drivers. The DXE drivers are the components that actually initialize the platform and provide the services
required to boot an UEFI-compliant operating system or a set of UEFI-compliant system utilities. There are
many possible firmware implementations for any given platform. Because the DXE Foundation has fixed
functionality, all the added value and flexibility in a firmware design is embodied in the implementation and
organization of DXE drivers.
There are two basic classes of DXE drivers:
• Early DXE Drivers
• DXE Drivers that follow the UEFI Driver Model
Additional classifications of DXE drivers are also possible.
All DXE drivers may consume the UEFI Boot Services, UEFI Runtime Services, and DXE Services to perform their
functions. DXE drivers must use dependency expressions to guarantee that the services and protocol interfaces
they require are available before they are executed. See the following topics for the DXE Architectural
Protocols upon which the services depend:
• UEFI Boot Services Dependencies
• UEFI Runtime Services Dependencies
• DXE Services Dependencies
II-11.2 Classes of DXE Drivers
II-11.2.1 Early DXE Drivers
The first class of DXE drivers are those that execute very early in the DXE phase. The execution order of these
DXE drivers depends on the following:
• The presence and contents of an a priori file
• The evaluation of dependency expressions
These early DXE drivers will typically contain basic services, processor initialization code, chipset initialization
code, and platform initialization code. These early drivers will also typically produce the DXE Architectural
Protocols that are required for the DXE Foundation to produces its full complement of UEFI Boot Services and
UEFI Runtime Services. To support the fastest possible boot time, as much initialization should be deferred to
the DXE drivers that follow UEFI Driver Model described in the UEFI 2.0 specification.
II-90
