UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
StackBase
Points to the first byte of the stack. This are may be part of the memory described by TemporaryRamBase
and TemporaryRamSize or may be an entirely separate area.
StackSize
Size of the stack, in bytes.
The information from SEC is mandatory information that is placed on the stack by the SEC phase to invoke
the PEI Foundation.
The SEC phase provides the required processor and/or platform initialization such that there is a temporary
RAM region available to the PEI phase. This temporary RAM could be a particular configuration of the
processor cache, SRAM, or other source. What is important with respect to this handoff is that the PEI
ascertain the available amount of cache as RAM from this data structure.
Similarly, the PEI Foundation needs to receive a priori information about where to commence the dispatch
of PEIMs. A platform can have various size BFVs. As such, the BootFirmwareVolume value tells the PEI
Foundation where it can expect to discover a firmware volume header data structure, and it is this firmware
volume that contains the PEIMs necessary to perform the basic system initialization.
I-9.3 PEI Calling Convention Processor Binding
Unless otherwise specified, the calling convention used for PEI functions is the same as the one specified in
the UEFI specification. However, for certain processors, an alternate calling convention is recommended for
new PPI definitions.
I-9.4 PEI Services Table Retrieval
This section describes processor-specific mechanisms for retrieving a pointer to a pointer to the PEI Services
Table (EFI_PEI_SERVICES **) such as is commonly used in PEIMs. The means of storage and retrieval are
processor specific.
I-9.4.1 x86
For x86 processors, EFI_PEI_SERVICES ** is stored in the 4 bytes immediately preceding the Interrupt
Descriptor Table. The EFI_PEI_SERVICES ** can be retrieved with the following code fragment, which should
be placed in a library routine for portability between architectures:
IDTR32
STRUCT
Limit
DW 1 DUP (?)
BaseAddress
DD 1 DUP (?)
IDTR32
ENDS
sub
esp, SIZEOF IDTR32
sidt
FWORD PTR ss:[esp]
mov
eax, [esp].IDTR32.BaseAddress
mov
eax, DWORD PTR [eax - 4]
add
esp, SIZEOF IDTR32
I-9.4.1.1 Interrupt Descriptor Table Initialization and Ownership Rules
1. The SEC Core must initialize the IDT using the lidt command and ensure that the four-bytes field
immediately preceding the IDT base address resides within temporary memory.
I-9.3. PEI Calling Convention Processor Binding
I-50
