UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
MTRR
Memory Type Range Register.
RSM
Resume. The process by which a CPU exits MM.
IV-1.2 Management Mode (MM)
Management Mode (MM) is a generic term used to describe a secure execution environment provided by the
CPU and related silicon that is entered when the CPU detects a MMI. For x86 systems, this can be implemented
with System Management Mode (SMM). For ARM systems, this can be implemented with TrustZone (TZ).
A MMI can be a CPU instruction or interrupt. Upon detection of a MMI, a CPU will jump to the MM Entry
Point and save some portion of its state (the “save state”) such that execution can be resumed. The MMI
can be generated synchronously by software or asynchronously by a hardware event. Each MMI source can
be detected, cleared and disabled. Some systems provide for special memory (Management Mode RAM or
MMRAM) which is set aside for software running in MM. Usually the MMRAM is hidden during normal CPU
execution, but this is not required. Usually, after MMRAM is hidden it cannot be exposed until the next system
reset.
IV-1.3 MM Driver Execution Environment
The MM Core Interface Specification describes the optional MM environment, which exists in parallel with
the other PI Architecture phases into runtime. The MM Core Interface Specification describes three pieces of
the PI Management Mode architecture:
MM Dispatch
During DXE, the DXE Foundation works with the MM Foundation to schedule MM drivers for execution
in the discovered firmware volumes.
MM Initialization
MM related code opens MMRAM, creates the MMRAM memory map, and launches the MM Foundation,
which provides the necessary services to launch MM-related drivers. Then, sometime before boot,
MMRAM is closed and locked. This piece may be completed during the SEC, PEI or DXE phases.
MMI Management
When an MMI generated, the MM environment is created and then the MMI sources are detected and
MMI handlers called.
The figure below shows the MM architecture.
% Note
The MM architecture does not guarantee support for the execution of handlers written to the EFI Byte
Code (EBC) specification.
IV-1.4 Initializing Management Mode in MM Traditional Mode
Management Mode initialization prepares the hardware for MMI generation and creates the necessary data
structures for managing the MM resources such as MMRAM. This specification supports three MM initialization
models: SEC, PEI and DXE. This specification does not describe MM Dispatch or MMI handling during SEC or
PEI. Previous versions of this specification only supported DXE Initialization.
IV-1.2. Management Mode (MM)
IV-2
