UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
firmware volume format, the firmware file system format, and the firmware file format.
The standard firmware volume format (The Firmware Volume Format) consists of two parts: the firmware
volume header and the firmware volume data. The firmware volume header describes all of the attributes
specified in Firmware Volumes. The header also contains a GUID which describes the format of the firmware
file system used to organize the firmware volume data. The firmware volume header can support other
firmware file systems other than the PI Firmware File System.
Fig. 2.2: The Firmware Volume Format
The PI Firmware File System format describes how firmware files and free space are organized within the
firmware volume.
The PI Firmware File format describes how files are organized. The firmware file format consists of two parts:
the firmware file header and the firmware file data.
III-2.2.1 Firmware Volume Format
The PI Architecture Firmware Volume format describes the binary layout of a firmware volume. The firmware
volume format consists of a header followed by the firmware volume data. The firmware volume header is
described by EFI_FIRMWARE_VOLUME_HEADER.
The format of the firmware volume data is described by a GUID. Valid files system GUID values are EFI_
FIRMWARE_FILE_SYSTEM2_GUID and EFI_FIRMWARE_FILE_SYSTEM3_GUID.
III-2.2.2 Firmware File System Format
The PI Architecture Firmware File System is a binary layout of file storage within firmware volumes. It is a flat
file system in that there is no provision for any directory hierarchy; all files reside in the root directly. Files are
stored end to end without any directory entry to describe which files are present. Parsing the contents of a
firmware volume to obtain a listing of files present requires walking the firmware volume from beginning to
end.
All files stored with the FFS must follow the PI Architecture Firmware File System Format. The standard file
header provides for several levels of integrity checking to help detect file corruption, should it occur for some
reason. This section describes:
• PI Architecture’s Firmware File System GUID (s)
• Volume Top File (VTF)
III-2.2. PI Architecture Firmware File System Format
III-16
