UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
In an Itanium-based system, it is also imperative that the firmware modules in the BFV be organized such that
at least the PAL-A is contained in the fault-tolerant regions. This processor-specific PAL-A authenticates the
PAL-B code, which usually is contained in the non-fault-tolerant regions of the firmware system. The PAL A
and PAL B binary components are always visible to all the processors in a node at the time of power-on; the
system fabric should not need to be initialized.
I-14.2.1.2 Non-Power-on Resets
Non-power-on resets can occur for many reasons. There are PEI and DXE system services that reset and reboot
the entire platform, including all processors and devices. It is important to have a standard variant of this
boot path for cases such as the following:
• Resetting the processor to change frequency settings
• Restarting hardware to complete chipset initialization
• Responding to an exception from a catastrophic error
This reset is also used for Configuration Values Driven through Reset (CVDR) configuration.
I-14.3 Normal Boot Paths
A traditional BIOS executes POST from a cold boot (G3 to S0 state), on resumes, or in special cases like INIT.
UEFI covers all those cases but provides a richer and more standardized operating environment.
The basic code flow of the system needs to be changeable due to different circumstances. The boot path
variable satisfies this need. The initial value of the boot mode is defined by some early PEIMs, but it can be
altered by other, later PEIM(s). All systems must support a basic S0 boot path. Typically a system has a more
rich set of boot paths, including S0 variations, S-state boot paths, and one or more special boot paths.
The architecture for multiple boot paths presented here has several benefits, as follows:
• The PEI Foundation is not required to be aware of system-specific requirements such as MP and various
power states. This lack of awareness allows for scalability and headroom for future expansion.
• Supporting the various paths only minimally impacts the size of the PEI Foundation.
• The PEIMs that are required to support the paths scale with the complexity of the system.
Note that the Boot Mode Register becomes a variable upon transition to the DXE phase. The DXE phase can
have additional modifiers that affect the boot path more than the PEI phase.
These additional modifiers can indicate if the system is in manufacturing mode, chassis intrusion, or AC power
loss or if silent boot is enabled.
I-14.3.1 Basic G0-to-S0 and S0 Variation Boot Paths
The basic S0 boot path is “boot with full configuration.” This path setting informs all PEIMs to do a full
configuration. The basic S0 boot path must be supported.
The Framework architecture also defines several optional variations to the basic S0 boot path. The variations
that are supported depend on the following:
• Richness of supported features
• If the platform is open or closed
• Platform hardware
For example, a closed system or one that has detected a chassis intrusion could support a boot path that
assumes no configuration changes from last boot option, thus allowing a very rapid boot time.
I-14.3. Normal Boot Paths
I-168
