UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
are allocated to a PCI bus than are required. Resource padding allows a limited number of add-in cards
to be hot added to a PCI bus without disturbing allocation to the rest of the buses.
root HPC
Root Hot Plug Controller. An HPC that gets reset only when the entire system is reset. Such HPCs can
depend upon the system firmware to initialize them because system firmware is guaranteed to run after
a system reset. An HPC that is embedded in the PCI root bridge is considered a root HPC bridge. Some
platform chipsets include special-purpose PCI-to-PCI bridges. They appear like a PCI-to-PCI bridge to
the configuration software, but their primary bus interface is not a PCI bus. Such a component can be
considered a root HPC if it is not subordinate to an HPC. Legacy HPCs may be implemented as chipset
devices that appear to be behind a special-purpose PCI-to-PCI bridge, but these HPCs are not reset when
the secondary bus reset bit in the parent PCI-to-PCI bridge is set. Such HPCs are considered as root
HPCs as well.
An HPC that is a child of a PCI-to-PCI bridge is not a root HPC. Such an HPC can be reset if the secondary
bus reset bit in the PCI-to-PCI bridge is set by an operating system. Because the initialization code in
the system firmware may not be executed during this case, such an HPC must initialize itself using
hardware mechanisms, without any firmware intervention. An HPC that is a child of another HPC is not
a root HPC. See section 3.5.1.3 in the PCI Standard Hot-Plug Controller and Subsystem Specification,
revision 1.0, for details regarding this term.
root PCI bus
A PCI bus that is not a child of another PCI bus. For every root PCI bus, there is an object in the ACPI
name space with a Plug and Play (PNP) ID of “PNP0A03.” Typical desktop systems include only one root
PCI bus.
SERR
System error.
SHPC
Standard (PCI) Hot Plug Controller. A PCI Hot Plug controller that conforms to the PCI Standard
Hot-Plug Controller and Subsystem Specification, revision 1.0. This specification is published by the PCI
Special Interest Group (PCI-SIG). An SHPC can either be embedded in a PCI root bridge or a PCI-to-PCI
bridge.coherency domain
The address resources of a system as seen by a processor. It consists of both system memory and I/O
space.
SMBus
System Management Bus.
SMBus host controller
Provides a mechanism for the processor to initiate communications with SMBus slave devices. This
controller can be connected to a main I/O bus such as PCI.
SMBus master device
Any device that initiates SMBus transactions and drives the clock.
SMBus PPI
A software interface that provides a method to control an SMBus host controller and access the data of
the SMBus slave devices that are attached to it.
SMBus slave device
The target of an SMBus transaction, which is driven by some master.
UDID
Unique Device Identifier. A 128-bit value that a device uses during the Address Resolution Protocol
(ARP) process to uniquely identify itself.
V-1.2. Terms Used in this Document
V-4
