UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
V-1.3 Conventions Used in this Document
This document uses the typographic and illustrative conventions described below.
V-1.3.1 Data Structure Descriptions
Supported processors are “little endian” machines. This distinction means that the low-order byte of a
multibyte data item in memory is at the lowest address, while the high-order byte is at the highest address.
Some supported processors may be configured for both “little endian” and “big endian” operation. All
implementations designed to conform to this specification will use “little endian” operation.
In some memory layout descriptions, certain fields are marked reserved. Software must initialize such fields
to zero and ignore them when read. On an update operation, software must preserve any reserved field.
The data structures described in this document generally have the following format:
Structure Name: The formal name of the data structure.
Summary: A brief description of the data structure.
Prototype: A “C-style” type declaration for the data structure.
Parameters: A brief description of each field in the data structure prototype.
Description: A description of the functionality provided by the data structure, including any limitations and
caveats of which the caller should be aware.
Related Definitions: The type declarations and constants that are used only by this data structure.
V-1.3.2 Protocol Descriptions
The protocols described in this document generally have the following format:
Protocol Name: The formal name of the protocol interface.
Summary: A brief description of the protocol interface.
GUID: The 128-bit Globally Unique Identifier (GUID) for the protocol interface.
Protocol Interface Structure: A “C-style” data structure definition containing the procedures and data fields
produced by this protocol interface.
Parameters: A brief description of each field in the protocol interface structure.
Description: A description of the functionality provided by the interface, including any limitations and
caveats of which the caller should be aware.
Related Definitions: The type declarations and constants that are used in the protocol interface structure or
any of its procedures.
V-1.3.3 Procedure Descriptions
The procedures described in this document generally have the following format:
ProcedureName(): The formal name of the procedure.
Summary: A brief description of the procedure.
Prototype: A “C-style” procedure header defining the calling sequence.
Parameters: A brief description of each field in the procedure prototype.
Description: A description of the functionality provided by the interface, including any limitations and
caveats of which the caller should be aware.
V-1.3. Conventions Used in this Document
V-5
