UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
The dependency expressions are logical combinations of PEIM-to-PEIM Interfaces (PPIs). These expressions
describe the PPIs that must be available before a given PEIM can be invoked. To evaluate the dependency
expression for the PEIM, the PEI Dispatcher references the PPI database in the PEI Foundation to determine
which PPIs have been installed. If the PPI has been installed, the dependency expression will evaluate to TRUE,
which tells the PEI Dispatcher it can run the PEIM. At this point, the PEI Foundation passes control to the
PEIM with a true dependency expression.
Once the PEI Dispatcher has evaluated all of the PEIMs in all of the exposed firmware volumes and no more
PEIMs can be dispatched (i.e., the dependency expressions do not evaluate from FALSE to TRUE ), the PEI
Dispatcher will exit. It is at this point that the PEI Dispatcher cannot invoke any additional PEIMs. The PEI
Foundation then reassumes control from the PEI Dispatcher and invokes the DXE IPL PPI to pass control to
the DXE phase of execution.
I-6.6 Pre-EFI Initialization Modules (PEIMs)
Pre-EFI Initialization Modules (PEIMs) are specialized drivers that personalize the PEI Foundation to the
platform. They are analogous to DXE drivers and generally correspond to the components being initialized. It
is the responsibility of the PEI Foundation code to dispatch the PEIMs in a sequenced order and provide basic
services. The PEIMs are intended to mirror the components being initialized.
Communication between PEIMs is not easy in a “memory poor” environment. Nonetheless, PEIMs cannot be
coded without some interaction between one another and, even if they could, it would be inefficient to do so.
The PEI phase provides mechanisms for PEIMs to locate and invoke interfaces from other PEIMs.
Because the PEI phase exists in an environment where minimal hardware resources are available and execution
is performed from the boot firmware device, it is strongly recommended that PEIMs do the minimum necessary
work to initialize the system to a state that meets the prerequisites of the DXE phase.
It is expected that, in the future, common practice will be that the vendor of a software or hardware component
will provide the PEIM (possibly in source form) so the customer can debug integration problems quickly.
I-6.7 PEIM-to-PEIM Interfaces (PPIs)
PEIMs communicate with each other using a structure called a PEIM-to-PEIM Interface (PPI). PPIs are
contained in a EFI_PEI_PPI_DESCRIPTOR data structure, which is composed of a GUID/pointer pair. The
GUID “names” the interface and the associated pointer provides the associated data structure and/or service
set for that PPI. A consumer of a PPI must use the PEI Service LocatePpi() to discover the PPI of interest.
The producer of a PPI publishes the available PPIs in its PEIM using the PEI Services InstallPpi() or
ReinstallPpi().
All PEIMs are registered and located in the same fashion, namely through the PEI Services listed above. Within
this name space of PPIs, there are two classes of PPIs:
• Architectural PPIs
• Additional PPIs
An architectural PPI is a PPI whose GUID is described in the PEI CIS and is a GUID known to the PEI Foundation.
These architectural PPIs typically provide a common interface to the PEI Foundation of a service that has a
platform-specific implementation, such as the PEI Service ReportStatusCode().
Additional PPIs are PPIs that are important for interoperability but are not depended upon by the PEI
Foundation. They can be classified as mandatory or optional. Specifically, to have a large class of interoperable
PEIMs, it would be good to signal that the final boot mode was installed in some standard fashion so that
PEIMs could use this PPI in their dependency expressions. The alternative to defining these additional PPIs in
the PEI CIS would be to have a proliferation of similar services under different names.
I-6.6. Pre-EFI Initialization Modules (PEIMs)
I-13
