UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
The firmware volume HOB is produced in the following ways:
• By the executable content in the HOB producer phase in the Boot Firmware Volume (BFV) that
understands the size and layout of the firmware volume(s) that are present in the platform.
• By a module that has loaded a firmware volume from some media into memory. The firmware volume
HOB details this memory location.
• By a module that has extracted the firmware volume from a file within a firmware file system. By
recording the volume and file name, the HOB consumer phase can avoid processing the same file again.
Firmware volumes described by the firmware volume HOB must have a firmware volume header as described
in this specification.
The HOB consumer phase consumes all firmware volume HOBs that are presented by the HOB producer phase
for use by its read-only support for the PI Firmware Image Format. The HOB consumer phase must provide
appropriate authentication data reflecting AuthenticationStatus for clients accessing the corresponding
firmware volumes. The HOB producer phase is required to describe any firmware volumes that may contain
the HOB consumer phase or platform drivers that are required to discover other firmware volumes.
III-5.8 CPU HOB
III-5.8.1 EFI_HOB_CPU
Summary
Describes processor information, such as address space and I/O space capabilities.
Prototype
typedef struct _EFI_HOB_CPU {
EFI_HOB_GENERIC_HEADER
Header;
UINT8
SizeOfMemorySpace;
UINT8
SizeOfIoSpace;
UINT8
Reserved[6];
} EFI_HOB_CPU;
Parameters
Header
The HOB generic header. Header.HobType = EFI_HOB_TYPE_CPU .
SizeOfMemorySpace
Identifies the maximum physical memory addressability of the processor.
SizeOfIoSpace
Identifies the maximum physical I/O addressability of the processor.
Reserved
For this version of the specification, this field will always be set to zero.
Description
The CPU HOB is produced by the processor executable content in the HOB producer phase. It describes
processor information, such as address space and I/O space capabilities. The HOB consumer phase consumes
this information to describe the extent of the GCD capabilities.
III-5.8. CPU HOB
III-111
