CHAPTER
TWO
FIRMWARE STORAGE DESIGN DISCUSSION
III-2.1 Firmware Storage Introduction
This specification describes how files should be stored and accessed within non-volatile storage. Firmware
implementations must support the standard PI Firmware Volume and Firmware File System format (described
below), but may support additional storage formats.
III-2.1.1 Firmware Devices
A firmware device is a persistent physical repository that contains firmware code and/or data. It is typically a
flash component but may be some other type of persistent storage. A single physical firmware device may be
divided into smaller pieces to form multiple logical firmware devices. Similarly, multiple physical firmware
devices may be aggregated into one larger logical firmware device.
This section describes the characteristics of typical physical firmware devices.
III-2.1.1.1 Flash
Flash devices are the most common non-volatile repository for firmware volumes. Flash devices are often
divided into sectors (or blocks) of possibly differing sizes, each with different run-time characteristics. Flash
devices have several unique qualities that are reflected in the design of the firmware file system:
• Flash devices can be erased on a sector-by-sector basis. After an erasure, all bits within a sector return
to their erase value, either all 0 or all 1.
• Flash devices can be written on a bit-by-bit basis if the change is from its erase value to the non-erase
value. For example, if the erase value is 1, then a bit with the value 1 can be changed to 0.
• Flash devices can only change from a non-erase value to an erase value by performing an erase operation
on an entire flash sector.
• Some flash devices can enable or disable reads and writes to the entire flash device or to individual flash
sectors.
• Some flash devices can lock the current enable or disable state of reads and writes until the next reset.
• Flash writes and erases are often longer operations than reads.
• Flash devices often place restrictions on the operations that can be performed while a write or erase is
occurring.
III-6
