UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
This
The EFI_MM_MP_PROTOCOL instance.
Procedure
A pointer to the code stream to be run on the APs that have entered MM. Type EFI_AP_PROCEDURE2 is
defined below in related definitions.
TimeoutInMicroseconds
Indicates the time limit in microseconds for the APs to finish execution of Procedure, either for blocking
or non-blocking mode. Zero means infinity. If the timeout expires before all APs return from Procedure ,
then Procedure on the failed APs is terminated. If the timeout expires in blocking mode, the call returns
EFI_TIMEOUT . If the timeout expires in non-blocking mode, the timeout determined can be through
CheckOnProcedure or WaitForProcedure.
Note that timeout support is optional. Whether an implementation supports this feature can be
determined via the Attributes data member.
ProcedureArguments
Allows the caller to pass a list of parameters to the code that is run by the AP. It is an optional common
mailbox between APs and the caller to share information.
Token
This is an optional parameter that allows the caller to execute the procedure in a blocking or non-
blocking fashion. If it is NULL the call is blocking, and the call will not return until the AP has completed
the procedure. If the token is not NULL, the call will return immediately. The caller can check whether
the procedure has completed with CheckOnProcedure or WaitForProcedure .
CPUStatus
This optional pointer may be used to get the individual status returned by every AP that participated in
the broadcast. This parameter if used provides the base address of an array to hold the EFI_STATUS
value of each AP in the system. The size of the array can be ascertained by the GetNumberOfProcessors
function.
As mentioned above, the broadcast may not include every processor in the system. Some implementations
may exclude processors that have been powered down in such a way that they are not responsive to interrupts.
Additionally the broadcast excludes the processor which is making the BroadcastProcedure call. For every
excluded processor, the array entry must contain a value of EFI_NOT_STARTED .
Status Codes Returned
EFI_SUCCESS
In the blocking case this indicates that Procedure has completed execution
on the APs In the non blocking case this indicates that the procedure has
been successfully scheduled for execution on the APs
EFI_INVALID_PARAMETER
Procedure or Token is NULL
EFI_NOT_READY
If a target AP is busy executing another procedure
EFI_TIMEOUT
In blocking mode the timeout expired before all enabled APs have finished
EFI_ALREADY_STARTED
Before the AP procedure associated with the Token is finished the same
Token cannot be used to dispatch or broadcast another procedure
IV-4.8.7 EFI_MM_MP_PROTOCOL.SetStartupProcedure()
Summary
This service allows the caller to set a startup procedure that will be executed when an AP powers up from a
state where core configuration and context is lost. The procedure is execution has the following properties:
• The procedure executes before the processor is handed over to the operating system.
• All processors execute the same startup procedure.
IV-4.8. MM MP protocol
IV-50
