UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
must implement an interpreter for this instruction set in order to evaluate dependency expressions. The
instruction set is defined in the following topics.
See Dependency Expression Grammar for an example BNF grammar for a dependency expression compiler.
There are many possible methods of specifying the dependency expression for a DXE driver. Dependency
Expression Grammar demonstrates one possible design for a tool that can be used to help build DXE driver
images.
II-10.7 Dependency Expression Instruction Set
The following topics describe each of the dependency expression opcodes in detail. Information includes a
description of the instruction functionality, binary encoding, and any limitations or unique behaviors of the
instruction.
Several of the opcodes require a GUID operand. The GUID operand is a 16-byte value that matches the type
EFI_GUID that is described in the UEFI 2.0 specification. These GUIDs represent protocols that are produced
by DXE drivers and the file names of DXE drivers stored in firmware volumes. A dependency expression is a
packed byte stream of opcodes and operands. As a result, some of the GUID operands will not be aligned on
natural boundaries. Care must be taken on processor architectures that do allow unaligned accesses.
The dependency expression is stored in a packed byte stream using postfix notation. As a dependency
expression is evaluated, the operands are pushed onto a stack. Operands are popped off the stack to perform
an operation. After the last operation is performed, the value on the top of the stack represents the evaluation
of the entire dependency expression. If a push operation causes a stack overflow, then the entire dependency
expression evaluates to FALSE . If a pop operation causes a stack underflow, then the entire dependency
expression evaluates to FALSE . Reasonable implementations of a dependency expression evaluator should
not make arbitrary assumptions about the maximum stack size it will support. Instead, it should be designed
to grow the dependency expression stack as required. In addition, DXE drivers that contain dependency
expressions should make an effort to keep their dependency expressions as small as possible to help reduce
the size of the DXE driver.
All opcodes are 8-bit values, and if an invalid opcode is encountered, then the entire dependency expression
evaluates to FALSE .
If an END opcode is not present in a dependency expression, then the entire dependency expression evaluates
to FALSE .
If an instruction encoding extends beyond the end of the dependency section, then the entire dependency
expression evaluates to FALSE .
The final evaluation of the dependency expression results in either a TRUE or FALSE result.
Dependency Expression Opcode Summary is a summary of the opcodes that are used to build dependency
expressions. The following topics describe each of these instructions in detail.
II-10.7. Dependency Expression Instruction Set
II-77
