UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
Table 2.2: UEFI Runtime Services
UEFI Runtime Services
Description
Variable
Provides services to look up, add, and remove environment variables
from nonvolatile storage. These services depend on the Variable Archi-
tectural Protocol and the Variable Write Architectural Protocol.
Real Time Clock
Provides services to get and set the current time and date. It also
provides services to get and set the time and date of an optional wake-
up timer. These services depend on the Real Time Clock Architectural
Protocol.
Reset
Provides services to shut down or reset the platform. These services
depend on the Reset Architectural Protocol.
Virtual Memory
Provides services that allow the runtime DXE components to be con-
verted from a physical memory map to a virtual memory map. These
services can only be called once in physical mode. Once the physical to
virtual conversion has been performed, these services cannot be called
again. These services depend on the Runtime Architectural Protocol.
II-2.2.4 DXE Services Table
DXE Services provides a summary of the services that are available through the DXE Services Table. These are
new services that are available in boot service time and are required only by the DXE Foundation and DXE
drivers.
Table 2.3: DXE Services
DXE Services
Description
Global Coherency Domain
Provides services to manage I O resources memory mapped I O re-
sources and system memory resources in the platform These services
are used to dynamically add and remove these resources from the
processor’s global coherency domain
Dispatcher
Provides services to manage DXE drivers that are being dispatched by
the DXE Dispatcher
II-2.3 DXE Foundation
The DXE Foundation is a boot service image that is responsible for producing the following:
• UEFI Boot Services
• UEFI Runtime Services
• DXE Services
The DXE Foundation consumes a HOB list and the services of the DXE Architectural Protocols to produce the
full complement of UEFI Boot Services, UEFI Runtime Services, and DXE Services. The HOB list is described
in detail in the Volume 3 .
The DXE Foundation is an implementation of UEFI. The DXE Foundation defined in this specification is
backward compatible with the UEFI 2.0 specification. As a result, both the DXE Foundation and DXE drivers
share many of the attributes of UEFI images. Because this specification makes extensions to the standard
UEFI interfaces, DXE images will not be functional on UEFI systems that are not compliant with this DXE CIS.
II-2.3. DXE Foundation
II-11
