UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
Unsupported variations default to basic S0 operation. The following are the defined variations to the basic
boot path:
• Boot with minimal configuration: This path is for configuring the minimal amount of hardware to boot
the system.
• Boot assuming no configuration changes: This path uses the last configuration data.
• Boot with full configuration plus diagnostics: This path also causes any diagnostics to be executed.
• Boot with default settings: This path uses a known set of safe values for programming hardware.
I-14.3.2 S-State Boot Paths
The following optional boot paths allow for different operation for a resume from S3, S4, and S5:
• S3 (Save to RAM Resume): Platforms that support S3 resume must take special care to preserve/restore
memory and critical hardware.
• S4 (Save to Disk): Some platforms may want to perform an abbreviated PEI and DXE phase on a S4
resume.
• S5 (Soft Off): Some platforms may want an S5 system state boot to be differentiated from a normal
boot – for example, if buttons other than the power button can wake the system.
An S3 resume needs to be explained in more detail because it requires cooperation between a G0-to-S0 boot
path and an S3 resume boot path. The G0-to-S0 boot path needs to save hardware programming information
that the S3 resume path needs to retrieve.
This information is saved in the Hardware Save Table using predefined data structures to perform I/O or
memory writes. The data is stored in an UEFI equivalent of the INT15 E820 type 4 (firmware reserved
memory) area or a firmware device area that is reserved for use by UEFI. The S3 resume boot path code can
access this region after memory has been restored.
I-14.4 Recovery Paths
All of the above boot paths can be modified or aborted if the system detects that recovery is needed. Recovery
is the process of reconstituting a system’s firmware devices when they have become corrupted. The corruption
can be caused by various mechanisms. Most firmware volumes on nonvolatile storage devices (flash, disk)
are managed as blocks. If the system loses power while a block, or semantically bound blocks, are being
updated, the storage might become invalid. On the other hand, the device might become corrupted by an
errant program or by errant hardware. The system designers must determine the level of support for recovery
based on their perceptions of the probabilities of these events occurring and their consequences.
The following are some reasons why system designers may choose to not support recovery:
• A system’s firmware volume storage media might not support modification after being manufactured. It
might be the functional equivalent of a ROM.
• Most mechanisms of implementing recovery require additional firmware volume space, which might be
too expensive for a particular application.
• A system may have enough firmware volume space and hardware features that the firmware volume
can be made sufficiently fault tolerant to make recovery unnecessary.
I-14.4. Recovery Paths
I-169
