UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
includes the following:
• Assigning PCI bus numbers and PCI interrupts
• Allocating PCI I/O resources, PCI memory resources, and PCI
prefetchable memory resources
• Setting miscellaneous PCI DMA values
Typically, PCI enumeration is to be performed only once during the boot process.
PCI function
A controller that provides some type of I/O services. It consumes some combination of PCI I/O, PCI
memory, and PCI prefetchable memory regions and the PCI configuration space. The PCI function is the
basic unit of configuration for PCI.
PCI host bridge
The software abstraction that produces one or more PCI root bridges. All the PCI buses that are produced
by a host bus controller are part of the same coherency domain. A PCI host bridge is an abstraction
and may be made up of multiple hardware devices. Most systems can be modeled as having one PCI
host bridge. This software abstraction is necessary while dealing with PCI resource allocation because
resources that are assigned to one PCI root bridge depend on another and all the “related” PCI root
bridges must be considered together during resource allocation.
PCI root bridge
A PCI root bridge that produces a root PCI bus. It bridges a root PCI bus and a bus that is not a PCI bus
(e.g., processor local bus, InfiniBand* fabric). A PCI host bridge may have one or more root PCI bridges.
Configurations of a root PCI bridge within a host bridge can have dependencies upon other root PCI
bridges within the same host bridge.
PCI segment
A collection of up to 256 PCI buses that share the same PCI configuration space. A PCI segment is
defined in section 6.5.6 of the ACPI 2.0 Specification (also ACPI 3.0) as the _SEG object. If a system
supports only a single PCI segment, the PCI segment number is defined to be zero.The existence of PCI
segments enables the construction of systems with greater than 256 PCI buses.
PEC
Packet Error Code. It is similar to a checksum data of the data coming across the SMBus wire.
PCI-to-CardBus bridges
A PCI device that produces a CardBus bus. The PCI-to-CardBus bridge has a PEI Pre-EFI Initialization.
PEIM
Pre-EFI Initialization Module. greater than 256 PCI buses.
PERR
Parity Error. type 2 PCI configuration header and has a class code of 0x070600.
PHPC
PCI Hot Plug* Controller. A hardware component that controls the power to one or more conventional
PCI slots or PCI Express slots.
PPI
PEIM-to-PEIM Interface.
RB
Root bridge. See PCI root bridge.
resource padding
Also known as resource overallocation. System resources are said to be overallocated if more resources
V-1.2. Terms Used in this Document
V-3
