UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
switch is on. Note that the I2C bus frequency needs to be set to a frequency supported by all devices currently
accessible by the I2C host controller.
V-17.1.1.3 Limited Address Space
Fig. 17.3: Limited Address Space
|I2C| devices have a limited number of address settings, sometimes only one. When the hardware design
requires more |I2C| devices than the address space supports a multiplexer may be introduced to create
additional bus configurations (address spaces). Note that the host must first select the appropriate bus
configuration before communicating with the |I2C| device.
V-17.1.1.4 I2C Bus Configurations
A bus configuration is a concept introduced by the I2C protocol stack to configure the state of the switches
and multiplexers in the I2C bus. The I2C protocol stack calls into the platform code with a value from zero
(0) to N-1 to request the platform code enable a specific configuration of the switches and multiplexers. The
platform code then sets the requested state for the switches and multiplexers and sets the I2C clock frequency
for this I2C bus configuration. Upon return the I2C protocol stack is able to access the I2C devices in this
configuration.
V-17.1.2 2C Protocol Stack Overview
The following is a representation of the I2C protocol stack and an I2C bus layout.
I2C Protocol Stack The platform hardware designer chooses the bus layout based upon the platform, I2C chip
and software requirements. The design uses switches to truncate the bus to enable higher bus frequencies for
a subset of devices which are placed closer to the controller. When the switch is on, the extended bus must
operate at a lower bus frequency. The design uses multiplexer to create separate address spaces enabling the
use of multiple devices which would otherwise have conflicting addresses. See the |I2C|-bus specification and
user manual for more details.
N.B. Some operating systems may prohibit the changing of switches and multiplexers in the I2C bus. In this
case the platform hardware and software designers must select a single I2C bus configuration consisting
of constant input values for the switches and multiplexers. The I2C subsystem must be placed in the OS
compatible I2C bus configuration upon successful completion of ExitBootServices() .
The platform hardware designer needs to provide the platform software designer the following data for each
I2C bus:
1. Which controller controls this bus
2. A list of logic blocks contained in one or more I2C devices:
• I2C device which contains this logic block
• Logic block I2C slave address
• Logic block description
V-17.1. Design Discussion
V-200
