UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
V-7.2.4 Simplifying the Design of IDE Drivers
The IDE bus is not a general-purpose bus. The standard ATA and ATAPI command sets support only a storage
class of devices. The following design decisions can be made to simplify the IDE Controller Initialization
Protocol and the design of IDE drivers:
• “The driver entity is the only driver that will send commands to the ATA devices. No device-specific
drivers are needed for IDE devices because all the devices belong to the same class (i.e., storage) and
the driver entity can have inherent knowledge of these commands. IDE bus equivalents of EFI_PCI_IO_
PROTOCOL and EFI_PCI_ROOT_BRIDGE_IO_PROTOCOL for accessing IDE devices are not required. It
is possible to further simplify the design of the driver entity if it does not have to deal with the ATAPI
devices. It can enumerate the ATA and ATAPI devices and install the EFI_SCSI_PASSTHRU_PROTOCOL
on ATAPI device handles. Either way, IDE-bus-specific I/O protocols are not needed. See the UEFI
Specification for the definitions of the EFI PCI I/O Protocol, PCI Root Bridge I/O Protocol, and the SCSI
Pass Thru Protocol.
• “IDE devices are accessed and configured through a set of standard registers in the IDE controller. The
ATA committee is standardizing the layout of these registers. (See ATA Host Adapter Standards , Working
Draft Version 0f, for more information.) For Serial ATA (SATA) controllers, the Serial ATA Advanced Host
Controller Interface (AHCI) Specification defines a standard register interface. Although the layout is
dependent on the bus on which the controller is located, the layout for a particular bus is fixed. As a
result, the driver entity can be required to know about the register layout for buses that it chooses to
support. For example, for a PCI IDE controller, the IDE driver can access the base of the command block
register for channel 0 using the following steps:
1. Check bit 0 of register 0x9 (Programming Interface Code) in the PCI configuration space of the controller
to determine whether it is operating in compatibility mode or native PCI mode. For this example, we
will assume that the controller is operating in native mode.
2. Read register 0x10 (Base Address Register [BAR] 0) of the controller. Clear bit 0 of the value that was
read to get the command block base
V-7.2.5 Configuring Devices on the IDE Bus
The table below lists the various drivers that may participate in configuring the devices on the IDE bus.
V-7.2. Design Discussion
V-35
