UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
The firmware device information includes the system memory locations of the firmware devices and system
memory locations of the firmware volumes that are contained within those firmware devices. The firmware
volumes may contain DXE drivers, and the DXE Dispatcher is responsible for loading and executing the DXE
drivers that are discovered in those firmware volumes.
The I/O resources and memory-mapped I/O resources that were discovered in the previous phase.
The HOB list must be treated as a read-only data structure. It conveys the state of the system at the time the
DXE Foundation is started. The DXE Foundation and DXE drivers should never modify the contents of the
HOB list.
HOB List shows an example HOB list. The first HOB list entry is always the Phase Handoff Information Table
(PHIT) HOB that contains the boot mode and a description of the memory regions used by the previous phase.
The rest of the HOB list entries can appear in any order. This example shows the various HOB types that are
supported. The most important ones to the DXE Foundation are the HOBs that describe system memory and
the firmware volumes. A HOB list is terminated by an end of list HOB. There is one additional HOB type
that is not shown. This is a GUIDed HOB that allows a module from the previous phase to pass private data
to a DXE driver. Only the DXE driver that recognizes the GUID value in the GUIDed HOB will be able to
understand the data in the GUIDed HOB. The DXE Foundation does not consume any GUIDed HOBs. The
HOB entries are all designed to be position independent. This allows the DXE Foundation to relocate the HOB
list to a different location if the DXE Foundation does not like where the previous phase placed the HOB list in
memory.
See HOB Translations for more information on HOB types.
Fig. 9.1: HOB List
II-9.3 DXE Foundation Data Structures
The DXE Foundation produces the UEFI System Table, and the UEFI System Table is consumed by every DXE
driver and executable image invoked by the DXE Dispatcher and BDS. It contains all the information required
for these components to utilize the services provided by the DXE Foundation and the services provided by any
previously loaded DXE driver. UEFI System Table and Related Components shows the various components that
are available through the UEFI System Table.
The DXE Foundation produces the UEFI Boot Services, UEFI Runtime Services, and DXE Services with the
aide of the DXE Architectural Protocols. The UEFI System Table also provides access to all the active console
devices in the platform and the set of UEFI Configuration Tables. The UEFI Configuration Tables are an
extensible list of tables that describe the configuration of the platform. Today, this includes pointers to tables
such as DXE Services, the HOB list, ACPI table, SMBIOS table, and the SAL System Table. This list may be
expanded in the future as new table types are defined. Also, through the use of the Protocol Handle Services
in the UEFI Boot Services Table, any executable image can access the handle database and any of the protocol
interfaces that have been registered by DXE drivers.
When the transition to the OS runtime is performed, the handle database, active consoles, UEFI Boot Services,
DXE Services, and services provided by boot service DXE drivers are terminated. This frees up memory for use
by the OS. This only leaves the UEFI System Table, UEFI Runtime Services Table, and the UEFI Configuration
Tables available in the OS runtime environment. There is also the option of converting all of the UEFI Runtime
II-9.3. DXE Foundation Data Structures
II-61
