UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
V-17.1.2.6 I2C Master Protocol
The I2C master protocol is I2C controller specific but platform independent.
This protocol is designed to allow the implementation to be built as a driver which may be delivered in binary
form as an EFI image.
The master protocol manipulates the I2C controller to perform a transaction on the I2C bus. The I2C master
protocol does not configure the I2C bus so it is up to the caller to ensure that the I2C bus is in the proper
configuration before issuing the I2C request.
The I2C master protocol typically needs the following information:
• Host controller address
• Controller’s input clock frequency
Depending upon the I2C controller, more data may be necessary. This protocol may use any method to get
these values: hard coded values, PCD values, or may choose to communicate with the platform specific code
using an undefined mechanism to get these values.
If the I2C master protocol requires data from the platform specific code then the I2C master protocol writer
needs to provide the platform interface details to the platform software designer.
V-17.1.2.7 Platform Specific Code
The platform specific code installs the EFI_I2C_ENUMERATE_PROTOCOL to provide the I2C device descriptions
to the I2C bus driver using the EFI_I2C_DEVICE structure. These descriptions include the bus configuration
number required for the I2C device, the slave address array, the vendor GUID and a unique ID value.
The EFI_I2C_BUS_CONFIGURATION_MANAGEMENT_PROTOCOL enables the I2C host protocol to call into the
platform specific code to enable a specific I2C bus configuration and set the I2C bus frequency. This protocol is
required to get the I2C host protocol to start for the I2C controller’s handle.
The platform software designer collects the data requirements from third party I2C driver writers, the vendor
specific I2C master protocol writer, the EFI_I2C_BUS_CONFIGURATION_MANAGEMENT_PROTOCOL and EFI_
I2C_ENUMERATE_PROTOCOL . The platform software designer gets the necessary data from the platform
hardware designer. The platform software designer then builds the data structures and implements the
necessary routines to construct the platform specific code for I2C.
V-17.1.2.8 Switches and Multiplexers
There are some I2C switches and I2C multiplexers where the control is done via I2C commands. When the
control inputs come via the same I2C bus that is being configured then the platform specific code must use the
EFI_I2C_MASTER_PROTOCOL . While the I2C host protocol makes the call to EnableI2cBusConfiguration to
configure the I2C bus, the I2C host protocol keeps the I2C master protocol idle, enabling the platform specific
code to perform the necessary I2C configuration transactions.
If however the configuration control is done via an I2C device connected to a different I2C bus (host controller),
then the platform software designer may choose between the following:
• Call into a third party I2C driver to manipulate the I2C bus control device.
• Call into the EFI_I2C_IO_PROTOCOL if no third party I2C driver exists for the I2C bus control device
• Call into the EFI_I2C_HOST_PROTOCOL if the platform does not expose the I2C bus control device.
V-17.1. Design Discussion
V-206
