UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
I-14.7 Assumptions
Boot Path Assumptions lists the assumptions that can be made about the system for each sleep state.
Table 14.1: Boot Path Assumptions
System State
Description
Assumptions
R0
Cold Boot
Cannot assume that the previously stored configura-
tion data is valid.
R1
Warm Boot
May assume that the perviously stored configuration
data is valid.
S3
ACPI Save to RAM Resume
The previously stored configuratio data is valid and
RAM is valid. RAM configuration must be restored
from nonvolatile storage (NVS) before RAM may
be used. The firmware may only modify previously
reserved RAM. There are two types of reserved mem-
ory. One is the equivalent of the BIOS INT15h, E820
type-4 memory and indicates that the RAM is re-
served for use by the firmware. The suggestion is to
add another type of memory that allows the OS to
corrupt the memory during runtime but that may be
overwritten during resume.
S4, | S5
Save to Disk Resume, | “Soft
Off”
S$ and S% are identical from a PEIM’s point of
view. The two are distinguished to support follow-
on phases. The entire system must be reinitialized
but the PEIMs may assume that the previous config-
uration is still valid.
Boot on Flash Up-
date
This boot mode can be either an INIT, S3, or other
means by which to restart the machine. If it is an S3,
for example, the flash update cause will supersede
the S3 restart. It is incumbent upon platform code,
such as the Memory Initialization PEIM, to deter-
mine the exact cause and perform correct behavior
(i.e., S3 state restoration versus INIT behavior).
Boot with Manu-
facturing Mode set-
tings
PEIM’s and/or DXE drivers may parameterize based
upon actions that should only occur in the factory
or a manufacturer approved setting.
I-14.8 Architectural Boot Mode PPIs
There is a possible hierarchy of boot mode PPIs that abstracts the various producers of this variable. It is a
hierarchy in that there should be an order of precedence in which each mode can be set. The PPIs and their
respective GUIDs are described in Required Architectural PPIs and Optional Architectural PPIs. The hierarchy
includes the master PPI, which publishes a PPI that will be depended upon by the appropriate PEIMs, and
some subsidiary PPI. For PEIMs that require that the boot mode is finally known, the Master Boot Mode PPI
can be used as a dependency. Architectural Boot Mode PPIs lists the architectural boot mode PPIs.
I-14.7. Assumptions
I-171
