UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
I-9.6.4 Firmware Volume Image Files
For PEI, while processing a firmware volume, if a file of type EFI_FV_FIRMWARE_VOLUME_IMAGE is found, the
PEI Dispatcher will check whether this firmware volume image file was already processed. If it was, then the
file is ignored.
Otherwise, the PEI Dispatcher will search the file for a section with the type EFI_SECTION_PEI_DEPEX , and
if found, evaluate the expression against the presently installed entries in the PPI database. If the file
has a dependency expression that evaluates to TRUE (or no EFI_SECTION_PEI_DEPEX section), then the PEI
Dispatcher will search the file for a section with the type EFI_SECTION_FIRMWARE_VOLUME_IMAGE , copy its
contents into memory, and install the EFI_PEI_FIRMWARE_VOLUME_INFO_PPI and EFI_PEI_FIRMWARE_VOLUME_
INFO2_PPI for the firmware volume image, and add HOBs of type EFI_HOB_FIRMWARE_VOLUME and EFI_HOB_
FIRMWARE_VOLUME2 to the hob list for the firmware volume image.
I-9.6.5 PEIM Dependency Expressions
The sequencing of PEIMs is determined by evaluating a dependency expression associated with each PEIM.
This expression describes the requirements necessary for that PEIM to run, which imposes a weak ordering on
the PEIMs. Within this weak ordering, the PEIMs may be initialized in any order.
I-9.6.6 Types of Dependencies
The base unit of the dependency expression is a dependency. A representative syntax (used in this document
for descriptive purposes) for each dependency is shown in the following section. The syntax is case-insensitive
and mnemonics are used in place of non-human-readable data such as GUIDs. White space is optional.
The operands are GUIDs of PPIs. The operand becomes “true” when a PPI with the GUID is registered.
I-9.7 Dependency Expressions
I-9.7.1 Introduction
A PEIM is stored in a firmware volume as a file with one or more sections. One of the sections must be a
PE32+ image. If a PEIM has a dependency expression, then it is stored in a dependency section. A PEIM
may contain additional sections for compression and security wrappers. The PEI Dispatcher can identify the
PEIMs by their file type. In addition, the PEI Dispatcher can look up the dependency expression for a PEIM by
looking for a dependency section in a PEIM file. The dependency section contains a section header followed
by the actual dependency expression that is composed of a packed byte stream of opcodes and operands.
Dependency expressions stored in dependency sections are designed to meet the following goals:
• Be small to conserve space.
• Be simple and quick to evaluate to reduce execution overhead.
These two goals are met by designing a small, stack-based instruction set to encode the dependency expressions.
The PEI Dispatcher must implement an interpreter for this instruction set to evaluate dependency expressions.
The instruction set is defined in the following topics.
See Dependency Expression Grammar for an example BNF grammar for a dependency expression compiler.
There are many possible methods of specifying the dependency expression for a PEIM. This example grammar
demonstrates one possible design for a tool that can be used to help build PEIM images.
I-9.7. Dependency Expressions
I-56
