UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
Once a DXE Driver is in the “Dependent” state, the DXE Dispatcher will evaluate the DXE driver’s dependency
expression. If the DXE driver does not have a dependency expression, then a dependency expression of all
the architectural protocols ANDed together is assumed for that DXE driver. If the dependency expression
evaluates to FALSE , then the DXE driver stays in the “Dependent” state. If the dependency expression never
evaluates to TRUE , then it will never leave the “Dependent” state. If the dependency expression evaluates to
TRUE , then the DXE driver will be promoted to the “Scheduled” state.
A DXE driver that is prompted to the “Scheduled” state is added to the end of the queue of other DXE
drivers that have been promoted to the “Scheduled” state. When the DXE driver has reached the head of
the queue, the DXE Dispatcher must use the services of the Security Authentication Protocol (SAP) to check
the authentication status of the DXE Driver. If the Security Authentication Protocol deems that the DXE
Driver violates the security policy of the platform, then the DXE Driver is placed in the “Untrusted” state.
The Security Authentication Protocol can also tell the DXE Dispatcher that the DXE driver should never be
executed and be placed in the “Never Trusted” state. If a DXE driver is placed in the “Untrusted” state, it can
only be promoted back to the “Scheduled” state with a call to the DXE Service Trust() .
Once a DXE driver has reached the head of the scheduled queue, and the DXE driver has passed the
authentication checks of the Security Authentication Protocol, the DXE driver is loaded into memory with
the Boot Service LoadImage() . Control is then passed from the DXE Dispatcher to the DXE driver with the
Boot Service StartImage() . When StartImage() is called for a DXE driver, that DXE driver is promoted to
the “Initializing” state. The DXE driver returns control to the DXE Dispatcher through the Boot Service Exit()
. When a DXE driver has returned control to the DXE Dispatcher, the DXE driver is in the terminal state called
“Initialized.”
The DXE Dispatcher is responsible for draining the queue of DXE drivers in the “Scheduled” state until the
queue is empty. Once the queue is empty, then DXE Dispatcher must evaluate all the DXE drivers in the
“Dependent” state to see if any of them need to be promoted to the “Scheduled” state. These evaluations need
to be performed every time one or more DXE drivers have been promoted to the “Initialized” state, because
those DXE drivers may have produced protocol interfaces for which the DXE drivers in the “Dependent” state
are waiting.
II-10.12 Example Orderings
The order that DXE drivers are loaded and executed by the DXE Dispatcher is a mix of strong and weak
orderings. The strong orderings are specified through a priori files, and the weak orderings are specified by
dependency expressions in DXE drivers. Sample Firmware Volume shows the contents of a sample firmware
volume that contains the following:
• DXE Foundation image
• DXE driver images
• An a priori file
The order that these images appear in the firmware volume is arbitrary. The DXE Foundation and the DXE
Dispatcher must not make any assumptions about the locations of files in firmware volumes. The a priori file
contains the GUID file names of the DXE drivers that are to be loaded and executed first. The dependency
expressions and the protocols that each DXE driver produces is shown next to each DXE driver image in the
firmware volume.
Based on the contents of the firmware volume in the figure above, the Security Driver, Runtime Driver, and
Variable Driver will always be executed first. This is an example of a strongly ordered dispatch due to the a
priori file. The DXE Dispatcher will then evaluate the dependency expressions of the remaining DXE drivers
to determine the order that they will be executed. Based on the dependency expressions and the protocols
that each DXE driver produces, there are 30 valid orderings from which the DXE Dispatcher may choose. The
BDS Driver and CPU Driver tie for the next drivers to be scheduled, because their dependency expressions
are simply TRUE. A dependency expression of TRUE means that the DXE driver does not require any other
II-10.12. Example Orderings
II-87
