UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
error code
Data produced by various software entities that indicates an abnormal condition. The format of the
error code data is governed by this specification.
progress code
Data produced by various software entities that indicates forward progress. The format of the progress
code data is governed by this specification.
status code
One of the three types of codes: progress code, error code, or debug code.
status code driver
The driver that produces the Status Code Runtime Protocol (EFI_STATUS_CODE_PROTOCOL). The status
code driver receives status codes and notifies registered listeners upon receipt. Status codes handled by
this driver are different from the EFI_STATUS returned by various functions. The term EFI_STATUS is
defined in the UEFI Specification.
III-6.3 Types of Status Codes
For each entity classification (class/subclass pair) there are three sets of operations:
• Progress codes
• Error codes
• Debug codes
For progress codes, operations correspond to activities related to the component classification. For error codes,
operations correspond to exception conditions (errors). For debug codes, operations correspond to the basic
nature of the debug information.
The values 0x00-0x0FFF are common operations that are shared by all subclasses in a class. There are also
subclass-specific operations/error codes. Out of the subclass-specific operations, the values 0x1000-0x7FFF
are reserved by this specification. The remaining values (0x8000-0xFFFF) are not defined by this specification
and OEMs can assign meaning to values in this range. The combination of class and subclass operations
provides the complete set of operations that may be reported by an entity. The figure below demonstrates the
hierarchy of class and subclass and progress, error, and debug operations.
The organization of status codes, progress versus error, class, subclass, and operation facilitate a flexible
reporting of status codes. In the simplest case, reporting the status code might only convey that an event
occurred. In a slightly more complex system, it might be possible to report the class and if it is a progress,
error, or debug Code. In such a case, it is at least possible to understand that the system is executing a
software activity or that an error occurred with a computing unit. If more reporting capability is present,
the error could be isolated to include the subclass–for example, an error occurred related to memory, or the
system is currently executing the PEI Foundation software. If yet more capability is present, information about
the type of error or activity is available–for example, single-bit ECC error or PEIM dispatch in progress. If the
reporting capability is complete, it can provide the detailed error information about the single-bit ECC error,
including the location and a string describing the failure. A large spectrum of consumer capability can be
supported with a single interface for the producers of progress and error information.
III-6.3.1 Status Code Classes
The PI architecture defines four classes of status codes–three classes for hardware and one class for software.
These classes are listed in the table below and described in detail in the rest of this section. Each class is made
up of several subclasses, which are also defined later in this section.
See Code Definitions for all the definitions of all data types and enumerations listed in this section.
III-6.3. Types of Status Codes
III-116
