UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
Length
The length in bytes of the firmware volume.
Description
The firmware volume HOB details the location of firmware volumes that contain firmware files. It includes a
base address and length. In particular, the HOB consumer phase will use these HOBs to discover drivers to
execute and the hand-off into the HOB consumer phase will use this HOB to discover the location of the HOB
consumer phase firmware file.
The firmware volume HOB is produced in the following ways:
• By the executable content in the HOB producer phase in the Boot Firmware Volume (BFV) that
understands the size and layout of the firmware volume(s) that are present in the platform.
• By a module that has loaded a firmware volume from some media into memory. The firmware volume
HOB details this memory location.
Firmware volumes described by the firmware volume HOB must have a firmware volume header as described
in this specification.
The HOB consumer phase consumes all firmware volume HOBs that are presented by the HOB producer
phase for use by its read-only support for the PI Firmware Image Format. The HOB producer phase is required
to describe any firmware volumes that may contain the HOB consumer phase or platform drivers that are
required to discover other firmware volumes.
III-5.7.2 EFI_HOB_FIRMWARE_VOLUME2
Summary
Details the location of a firmware volume which was extracted from a file within another firmware volume.
Prototype
typedef struct {
EFI_HOB_GENERIC_HEADER
Header;
EFI_PHYSICAL_ADDRESS
BaseAddress;
UINT64
Length;
EFI_GUID
FvName;
EFI_GUID
FileName;
} EFI_HOB_FIRMWARE_VOLUME2;
Parameters
Header
The HOB generic header. Header.HobType = EFI_HOB_TYPE_FV2 .
BaseAddress
The physical memory-mapped base address of the firmware volume. Type EFI_PHYSICAL_ADDRESS is
defined in AllocatePages() in the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface Specification, version 2.0.
Length
The length in bytes of the firmware volume.
FvName
The name of the firmware volume.
FileName
The name of the firmware file which contained this firmware volume.
Description
III-5.7. Firmware Volume HOB
III-109
