UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
active link to the cross-reference. Click on the word to follow the hyperlink. Note that these links are
not active in the PDF of the specification.
Bold
In text, a Bold typeface identifies a processor register name. In other instances, a Bold typeface can be
used as a running head within a paragraph.
Italic
In text, an Italic typeface can be used as emphasis to introduce a new term or to indicate a manual or
specification name.
BOLD Monospace
Computer code, example code segments, and all prototype code segments use a BOLD Monospace typeface
with a dark red color. These code listings normally appear in one or more separate paragraphs, though
words or segments can also be embedded in a normal text paragraph.
Bold Monospace In the online help version of this specification, words in a Bold Monospace typeface that is
underlined and in blue indicate an active hyperlink to the code definition for that function or type definition.
Click on the word to follow the hyperlink. Note that these links are not active in the PDF of the specification.
Also, these inactive links in the PDF may instead have a Bold Monospace appearance that is underlined but in
dark red. Again, these links are not active in the PDF of the specification.
Italic Monospace In code or in text, words in Italic Monospace indicate placeholder names for variable
information that must be supplied (i.e., arguments).
Plain Monospace In code, words in a Plain Monospace typeface that is a dark red color but is not bold or
italicized indicate pseudo code or example code. These code segments typically occur in one or more separate
paragraphs.
II-1.5 Requirements
This document is an architectural specification that is part of the Platform Initialization Architecture (PI
Architecture) family of specifications defined and published by the Unified EFI Forum. The primary intent of
the PI Architecture is to present an interoperability surface for firmware components that may originate from
different providers. As such, the burden to conform to this specification falls both on the producer and the
consumer of facilities described as part of the specification.
In general, it is incumbent on the producer implementation to ensure that any facility that a conforming
consumer firmware component might attempt to use is present in the implementation. Equally, it is incum-
bent on a developer of a firmware component to ensure that its implementation relies only on facilities
that are defined as part of the PI Architecture. Maximum interoperability is assured when collections of
conforming components are designed to use only the required facilities defined in the PI Architecture family
of specifications.
As this document is an architectural specification, care has been taken to specify architecture in ways that
allow maximum flexibility in implementation for both producer and consumer. However, there are certain
requirements on which elements of this specification must be implemented to ensure a consistent and
predictable environment for the operation of code designed to work with the architectural interfaces described
here.
For the purposes of describing these requirements, the specification includes facilities that are required, such
as interfaces and data structures, as well as facilities that are marked as optional.
In general, for an implementation to be conformant with this specification, the implementation must include
functional elements that match in all respects the complete description of the required facility descriptions
presented as part of the specification. Any part of the specification that is not explicitly marked as “optional”
is considered a required facility.
II-1.5. Requirements
II-5
