UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
Where parts of the specification are marked as “optional,” an implementation may choose to provide matching
elements or leave them out. If an element is provided by an implementation for a facility, then it must match
in all respects the corresponding complete description.
In practical terms, this means that for any facility covered in the specification, any instance of an implementa-
tion may only claim to conform if it follows the normative descriptions completely and exactly. This does
not preclude an implementation that provides additional functionality, over and above that described in the
specification. Furthermore, it does not preclude an implementation from leaving out facilities that are marked
as optional in the specification.
By corollary, modular components of firmware designed to function within an implementation that conforms
to the PI Architecture are conformant only if they depend only on facilities described in this and related PI
Architecture specifications. In other words, any modular component that is free of any external dependency
that falls outside of the scope of the PI Architecture specifications is conformant. A modular component is not
conformant if it relies for correct and complete operation upon a reference to an interface or data structure
that is neither part of its own image nor described in any PI Architecture specifications.
It is possible to make a partial implementation of the specification where some of the required facilities are
not present. Such an implementation is non-conforming, and other firmware components that are themselves
conforming might not function correctly with it. Correct operation of non-conforming implementations is
explicitly out of scope for the PI Architecture and this specification.
II-1.6 Conventions used in this document
II-1.6.1 Number formats
A binary number is represented in this standard by any sequence of digits consisting of only the Western-Arabic
numerals 0 and 1 immediately followed by a lower-case b (e.g., 0101b). Underscores or spaces may be
included between characters in binary number representations to increase readability or delineate field
boundaries (e.g., 0 0101 1010b or 0_0101_1010b).
A hexadecimal number is represented in this standard by 0x preceding any sequence of digits consisting
of only the Western-Arabic numerals 0 through 9 and/or the upper-case English letters A through F (e.g.,
0xFA23). Underscores or spaces may be included between characters in hexadecimal number representations
to increase readability or delineate field boundaries (e.g., 0xB FD8C FA23 or 0xB_FD8C_FA23).
A decimal number is represented in this standard by any sequence of digits consisting of only the Arabic
numerals 0 through 9 not immediately followed by a lower-case b or lower-case h (e.g., 25).
This standard uses the following conventions for representing decimal numbers:
• the decimal separator (i.e., separating the integer and fractional portions of the number) is a period;
• the thousands separator (i.e., separating groups of three digits in a portion of the number) is a comma;
• the thousands separator is used in the integer portion and is not used in the fraction portion of a number.
II-1.6.2 Binary prefixes
This standard uses the prefixes defined in the International System of Units (SI) (see http://www.bipm.org/
en/si/si_brochure/chapter3/prefixes.html) for values that are powers of ten.
Table 1.2: SI prefixes
Factor
Factor
Name
Symbol
103
1,000
kilo
K
106
1,000,000
mega
M
109
1,000,000,000
giga
G
II-1.6. Conventions used in this document
II-6
