UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
V-14.1.1 Super I/O
The Super I/O DXE driver and PEIM encapsulate the functionality of the Super I/O component. They are both
responsible to:
• Detect the presence of the component, using information from the PCD and the apertures opened by the
ISA host controller.
• Configure the component and its logical devices using information from the PCD.
• Publish information about the component and the logical devices it supports using the SIO protocol/PPI.
V-14.1.1.1 DXE
The Super I/O DXE Driver is responsible for: - Producing the Driver Binding protocol’s Supported() , Start()
and Stop() member functions on the driver image handle. - Installing the same GUID as used for the SioGuid
member of the Super I/O PPI on the image handle. This allows other drivers to detect which Super I/O
is present in the system. - Checking Super I/O controller presence. The Supported() function must check
whether the Super I/O controller is present in the system and whether the handle has an instance of the
ISA Host Controller Service Binding protocol installed on it. For more information, see “Working With The
ISA Bus”, below. - Creatingchild handles for each logical device. The Start() function creates a child handle
for each logical device using the ISA Host Controller Service Binding protocol and installs the SIO and SIO
Control protocols on each one. For more information, see “Working With Logical Devices”, below.
V-14.1.1.1.1 Working with the ISA Bus
The system may contain an ISA bus bridge and zero or more Extended I/O bus bridges. The Super I/O driver
checks each of these to see whether it is present.
Supported()
The Super I/O DXE driver’s Driver Binding protocol Supported() function typically performs the following
steps:
1. Verifies that the controller handle has an installed instance of the ISA Host Controller Service Binding
protocol.
2. Opens the apertures necessary to access the component’s configuration I/O address (i.e. 0x2e/0x2f)
using the ISA Host Controller protocol.
3. Verifies the device’s signature to determine whether the component is actually present using these
configuration I/O addresses. For example, it might read a device-specific register and check for a
signature.
4. Closes the aperture and any opened protocols.
Start()
The Super I/O DXE driver’s Driver Binding protocol Start() function typically performs the following steps:
1. Detects whether Super I/O DXE driver is already managing the device indicated by the configuration
I/O address. One method of doing this is to create a Device Path with the configuration I/O address
embedded in one device node, then use LocateDevicePath to determine whether a child handle with the
ISA Host Controller protocol installed, exists.
2. Creates a child handle for the SIO using the ISA Host Controller Service Binding protocol.
• Opens the I/O apertures used for the configuration I/O address.
• Installs an instance of the Device Path and (optionally) the SIO and SIO Control protocol
3. Creates child handles for each logical device. Install an instance of the Device Path and SIO protocol
and (optionally) the SIO Control protocol on each child handle.
V-14.1. Design Descriptions
V-172
