UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
Table 6.2: Class Definitions
Type of Class
Class Name
Date Type Name
Hardware
Computing Unit
EFI_COMPUTING_UNIT
User-Accessible Peripheral
EFI_PERIPHERAL
I/O Bus
EFI_IO_BUS
Software
Host Software
EFI_SOFTWARE
Class/subclass pairing should be able to classify any system entity, whether software or hardware. For example,
the boot-strap processor (BSP) in a system would be a member of the computing unit class and host processor
subclass, while a graphics processor would also be a member of the computing unit class, but a member of
the I/O processor subclass.
III-6.3.2 Instance Number
Because a system may contain multiple entities matching a class/subclass pairing, there is an instance number.
Instance numbers have different meanings for different classes. However, an instance number of 0xFFFFFFFF
always indicates that instance information is unavailable, not applicable, or not provided.
Valid instance numbers start from 0. So a 4-processor server would logically have four instances of the
class/subclass pairing, computing unit/host processor, instance numbers 0 to 3.
Due to the complexity of system design, it is outside of the scope of this specification how to pair instance
numbers with the actual component–for instance, determining which processor is number 3. However, this
specification mandates that the numbering be consistent with the other agents in the system. For example,
the processor numbering scheme that is followed by status codes must be consistent with the one followed by
the ACPI tables.
III-6.4 Hardware Classes
III-6.4.1 Computing Unit Class
The Computing Unit class covers components directly related to system computational capabilities. Subclasses
correspond to types of computational devices and resources. See the following for the computing unit class:
• Instance Number
• Progress Code Operations
• Error Code Operations
• Defined Subclasses
III-6.4.1.1 Instance Number
The instance number refers to the computing unit’s geographic location in some manner. An instance number
of 0xFFFFFFFF means that the instance number information is not available or the provider of the information
is not interested in providing the instance number.
III-6.4.1.2 Progress Code Operations
All computing unit subclasses share the operation codes listed in the table below. See Progress Code Definitions
in Code Definitions: Computing Unit Class for the definitions of these progress codes.
III-6.4. Hardware Classes
III-118
