UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
Fig. 9.2: UEFI System Table and Related Components
Services from a physical address space to an OS-specific virtual address space. This address space conversion
may be performed only once.
II-9.4 Required DXE Foundation Components
DXE Foundation Components shows the components that a DXE Foundation must contain.
A detailed
description of these components follows.
A DXE Foundation must have the following components:
• An implementation of the UEFI Boot Services. UEFI Boot Services Dependencies describes which services
can be made available based on the HOB list alone and which services depend on the presence of
architectural protocols.
• An implementation of the DXE Services. DXE Services Dependencies describes which services can be
made available based on the HOB list alone and which services depend on the presence of architectural
protocols.
• A HOB Parser that consumes the HOB list specified by HobStart and initializes the UEFI memory map,
GCD memory space map, and GCD I/O space map. See section if for details on the translation from
HOBs to the maps maintained by the DXE Foundation
• An implementation if a DXE Dispatcher that includes a dependency expression evaluator. See DXE
Dispatcher for a detailed description of this component.
• A Firmware Volume driver that produces the EFI_FIRMWARE_VOLUME2_PROTOCOL for every firmware
volume described in the HOB list. This component is used by the DXE Dispatcher to search for a priori
files and DXE drivers in firmware volumes. See the Platform Initialization Specification , Volume
3, for the definition of the Firmware Volume Protocol.
• An instance of the EFI_DECOMPRESS_PROTOCOL . See the UEFI 2.0 specification for the detailed require-
ments for this component. This component is required by the DXE Dispatcher to read compressed
sections from DXE drivers stored in firmware volumes. It is expected that most DXE drivers will utilize
compressed sections to reduce the size of firmware volumes.
II-9.4. Required DXE Foundation Components
II-62
