UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
Table 14.2: Architectural Boot Mode PPIs
PPI Name
Required or Optional
PPI Definition in Section
Master Boot Mode PPI
Required
Architectural PPIs: Required Ar-
chitectural PPIs
Boot in Recovery Mode PPI
Optional
Architectural PPIs: Optional Ar-
chitectural PPIs
I-14.9 Recovery
I-14.9.1 Scope
Recovery is the process of reconstituting a system’s firmware devices when they have become corrupted.
The corruption can be caused by various mechanisms. Most firmware volumes (FVs) in nonvolatile storage
(NVS) devices (flash or disk, for example) are managed as blocks. If the system loses power while a block, or
semantically bound blocks, are being updated, the storage might become invalid. On the other hand, an errant
program or hardware could corrupt the device. The system designers must determine the level of support for
recovery based on their perceptions of the probabilities of these events occurring and the consequences.
The designers of a system may choose not to support recovery for the following reasons:
• A system’s FV storage media might not support modification after being manufactured. It might be the
functional equivalent of a ROM.
• Most mechanisms of implementing recovery require additional FV space that might be too expensive for
a particular application.
• A system may have enough FV space and hardware features that the FV can be made sufficiently fault
tolerant to make recovery unnecessary.
I-14.9.2 Discovery
Discovering that recovery is required may be done using a PEIM (for example, by checking a “force recovery”
jumper) or the PEI Foundation itself. The PEI Foundation might discover that a particular PEIM has not
validated correctly or that an entire firmware has become corrupted.
I-14.9.3 General Recovery Architecture
The concept behind recovery is to preserve enough of the system firmware so that the system can boot to a
point where it can do the following:
• Read a copy of the data that was lost from chosen peripherals.
• Reprogram the firmware volume (FV) with that data.
Preserving the recovery firmware is a function of the way the FV store is managed, which is generally beyond
the scope of this document.
If the PEI Dispatcher encounters PEIMs that have been corrupted (for example, by receiving an incorrect hash
value), it must change the boot mode to “recovery.” Once set to recovery, other PEIMs must not change it to
one of the other states.
A PEIM can also detect a catastrophic condition or a forced-recovery event and alert the PEI 10.6.4 Finding
and Loading the Recovery DXE Image.
I-14.9. Recovery
I-172
