CHAPTER
TWO
SMBUS HOST CONTROLLER DESIGN DISCUSSION
V-2.1 SMBus Host Controller Overview
These section describe the System Management Bus (SMBus) Host Controller Protocol. This protocol provides
an I/O abstraction for an SMBus host controller. An SMBus host controller is a hardware component that
interfaces to an SMBus. It moves data between system memory and devices on the SMBus by processing data
structures and generating transactions on the SMBus. The following use this protocol:
• An SMBus bus driver to perform all data transactions over the SMBus
• Early chipset drivers that need to manage devices that are required early in the Driver Execution
Environment (DXE) phase, before the Boot Device Selection (BDS) phase
This protocol should be used only by drivers that require direct access to the SMBus.
Considerable discussion has been done to understand the usage model of the UEFI Driver Model in the SMBus.
Although, the UEFI Driver Model concepts can be applied to SMBus, only the SMBus Host Controller Protocol
was created for now for the following reasons:
• The UEFI Driver Model is designed primarily for boot devices. Boot devices are unlikely to be connected
to the SMBus because of SMBus-intrinsic capability. They are slow and not enumerable.
• The current usage model of SMBus is to enable and configure devices early during the boot phase,
before BDS.
A DXE driver that publishes this protocol will either support Execute, ArpDevice, GetArpMap, and Notify;
alternatively, a driver will support only Execute and return “not supported” for the latter 3 services.
If some of these assumptions become obsolete and require being revisited in the future, this specification is
extensible to convert to the UEFI Driver Model.
V-2.2 Related Information
The following publications and sources of information may be useful to you or are referred to by this
specification.
Industry Specifications
• System Management Bus (SMBus) Specification, version 2.0, SBS Implementers Forum, August 3, 2000:
http://www.smbus.org
• PCI Local Bus Specification, revision 3.0, PCI Special Interest Group.
V-8
