UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
V-14.1.2 ISA Bus
The ISA Bus is the logical device that manages the child devices attached to the ISA Host Controller.
It consumes the ISA Host Controller protocol produced by the ISA Host Controller and installs the ISA Host
Controller Service Binding protocol on the ISA Host Controller’s handle.
V-14.1.3 ISA Host Controller
The Host Controller is the device that translates the memory and I/O cycles from a parent device (such as a
PCI bus) into memory and I/O cycles for the target devices.
V-14.1.3.1 DXE
The ISA Host Controller driver creates a child handle for the ISA Host Controller and installs an instance
of the ISA Host Controller protocol and Device Path protocol on it. The Device Path instance for the child
handle will have an extra ACPI device path node for either PNP0A05 (standard subtractive-decode ISA bus)
or PNP0A06 (positive-decode extended I/O bus). If a bridge device can support more than one of these
simultaneously, the _UID field of the device path node must contain a different value.
For PCI-ISA/LPC bridges, there are two classes of the ISA Host Controller Driver: generic and chipset-specific.
The generic ISA Bus driver connects to any standard subtractive-decode PCI-ISA bridge device (class code:6,
sub-class: 1, programming I/F 0).
Chipset-specific ISA Bus Drivers are used for PCI-ISA (or PCI-LPC) bridges that support positive decode. These
bridges have device-specific mechanisms for opening and closing the I/O and memory apertures. These
apertures determine which address ranges will be passed through to devices attached to the ISA/LPC side
of the bridge. In this case, the registration process includes opening of apertures and guaranteeing that I/O
access falls within the addresses that go the specified bus.
The ISA Host Controller is responsible for reporting the actual address and size of the apertures using the
DXE GCD services.
V-14.1.3.2 PEI
The ISA Bus PEIM comes in two versions: generic and chipset-specific.
The generic version is used for subtractive-decode ISA (or LPC) buses. It implements the EFI_ISA_HC_PPI
with a device identifier of all zeroes. All of the aperture functions report EFI_UNSUPPORTED .
The chipset-specific version implements the EFI_ISA_HC_PPI , which opens and close apertures for ISA/LPC
buses that are positive decode. The device identifier is filled in with the PCI PFA of the PCI-ISA bridge device.
V-14.1.4 Logical Devices
Logical Device drivers are UEFI driver model drivers that support many of the standard PC/AT peripherals.
They are designed to connect to the device paths produced by the Super I/O DXE driver. Each of these drivers
produces the Driver Binding and related protocols used in implementing UEFI driver model drivers. Each of
these drivers supports more than one instance of a specific device can be in a system. Calls to Stop() and
Start() will disable or enable the device and stop consumption of all system resources. This allows Super I/O
drivers to be loaded and unloaded. These drivers can use the SIO Control protocol to enable consumption of
system I/O and memory resources when they are started or stopped.
V-14.2 Code Definitions
V-14.2.1 EFI_SIO_PPI
Summary
V-14.2. Code Definitions
V-174
