UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
I-9.8.2.2 Preserving Weak Ordering
The algorithm must preserve the weak ordering implied by the depex.
I-9.8.2.3 Preventing Infinite Loops
It is illegal for AcXpY (A consumes X and produces Y) and BcYpX. This is known as a cycle and is unresolvable
even if memory is available. At a minimum, the dispatching algorithm must not end up in an infinite loop in
such a scenario. With the algorithm described above, neither PEIM would be executed.
I-9.8.2.4 Controlling Processor Register Resources
The algorithm must require that a minimum of the processor’s register resources be preserved while PEIMs
are dispatched.
I-9.8.2.5 Preserving Proper Dispatch Order
The algorithm must preserve proper dispatch order in cases such as the following:
AcQpZ BcLpR CpL DcRpQ
The issue with the above scenario is that A and B are not obviously related until D is processed. If A and B
were in one firmware volume and C and D were in another, the ordering could not be resolved until execution.
The proper dispatch order in this case is CBDA. The algorithm must resolve this type of case.
I-9.8.2.6 Using Available Memory
The PEI Foundation begins operation using a temporary memory store that contains the initial call stack
from the Security (SEC) phase. The SEC phase must pass the size and location of the stack and the size and
location of the temporary memory store.
The PEI stack will be available for subsequent PEIM invocations, and the PEI heap will be used for PEIM
memory allocations and Hand-Off Block (HOB) creation.
There can be no memory writes to the address space beyond this initial temporary memory until a PEIM
registers a permanent memory range using the PEI Service InstallPeiMemory() . When permanent memory
is installed, the PEI Foundation will copy the call stack that is located in temporary memory into a segment
of permanent memory. If necessary, the size of the call stack can be expanded to support the subsequent
transition into DXE.
In addition to the call stack, the PEI Foundation will copy the following from temporary to permanent memory:
• PEI Foundation private data
• PEI Foundation heap
• HOB list
• Installed Firmware Volumes
Any permanent memory consumed in this fashion by the PEI Foundation will be described in a HOB, which
the PEI Foundation will create.
The PEI Foundation will copy any installed firmware volumes from the temporary memory location to a
permanent memory location with the alignment specified in the firmware volume header. Any uncompressed
PE32 or TE sections within PEIMs in these firmware volumes will be fixed up. This ensures any static EFI_
PEI_PPI_DESCRIPTORs or PPI interface pointers in these PEIMs point to the permanent memory addresses.
In addition, if there were any EFI_PEI_PPI_DESCRIPTORs created in the temporary memory heap or declared
statically in PEIMs, their respective locations have been translated by an offset equal to the difference between
the original location in temporary memory and the destination location in permanent memory. In addition
to this heap copy, the PEI Foundation will traverse the PEI PPI database. Any references to EFI_PEI_PPI_
I-9.8. Dispatch Algorithm
I-63
