CHAPTER
TWO
OVERVIEW
II-2.1 Driver Execution Environment (DXE) Phase
The Driver Execution Environment (DXE) phase is where most of the system initialization is performed.
Pre-EFI Initialization (PEI), the phase prior to DXE, is responsible for initializing permanent memory in the
platform so that the DXE phase can be loaded and executed. The state of the system at the end of the PEI
phase is passed to the DXE phase through a list of position-independent data structures called Hand-Off
Blocks (HOBs). HOBs are described in detail in Volume 3 .
There are several components in the DXE phase:
• DXE Foundation
• DXE Dispatcher
• A set of DXE Drivers
The DXE Foundation produces a set of Boot Services, Runtime Services, and DXE Services. The DXE Dispatcher
is responsible for discovering and executing DXE drivers in the correct order. The DXE drivers are responsible
for initializing the processor, chipset, and platform components as well as providing software abstractions for
system services, console devices, and boot devices. These components work together to initialize the platform
and provide the services required to boot an operating system. The DXE phase and Boot Device Selection
(BDS) phases work together to establish consoles and attempt the booting of operating systems. The DXE
phase is terminated when an operating system is successfully booted. The DXE Foundation is composed
of boot services code, so no code from the DXE Foundation itself is allowed to persist into the OS runtime
environment. Only the runtime data structures allocated by the DXE Foundation and services and data
structured produced by runtime DXE drivers are allowed to persist into the OS runtime environment.
PI Architecture Firmware Phases shows the phases that a platform with PI Architecture firmware will execute.
In a PI Architecture firmware implementation, the phase executed prior to DXE is PEI. This specification
covers the transition from the PEI to the DXE phase, the DXE phase, and the DXE phase’s interaction with
the BDS phase. The DXE phase does not require a PEI phase to be executed. The only requirement for the
DXE phase to execute is the presence of a valid HOB list. There are many different implementations that
can produce a valid HOB list for the DXE phase to execute. The PEI phase in a PI Architecture firmware
implementation is just one of many possible implementations.
II-2.2 UEFI System Table
II-2.2.1 Overview
The UEFI System Table is passed to every executable component in the DXE phase. The UEFI System Table
contains a pointer to the following:
• UEFI Boot Services Table
II-8
