UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
(continued from previous page)
IN CONST EFI_STATUS_CODE_DATA
*Data
OPTIONAL
);
Parameters
PeiServices
An indirect pointer to the EFI_PEI_SERVICES table published by the PEI Foundation.
Type
Indicates the type of status code being reported. The type EFI_STATUS_CODE_TYPE is defined in “Related
Definitions” below.
Value
Describes the current status of a hardware or software entity. This includes information about the class
and subclass that is used to classify the entity as well as an operation. For progress codes, the operation
is the current activity. For error codes, it is the exception. For debug codes, it is not defined at this time.
Type EFI_STATUS_CODE_VALUE is defined in “Related Definitions” below.
Instance
The enumeration of a hardware or software entity within the system. A system may contain multiple
entities that match a class/subclass pairing. The instance differentiates between them. An instance of
0 indicates that instance information is unavailable, not meaningful, or not relevant. Valid instance
numbers start with 1.
CallerId
This optional parameter may be used to identify the caller. This parameter allows the status code driver
to apply different rules to different callers.
Data
This optional parameter may be used to pass additional data. Type EFI_STATUS_CODE_DATA is defined in
“Related Definitions” below. The contents of this data type may have additional GUID-specific data.
Description
ReportStatusCode() is called by PEIMs that wish to report status information on their progress. The principal
use model is for a PEIM to emit one of the standard 32-bit error codes. This will allow a platform owner to
ascertain the state of the system, especially under conditions where the full consoles might not have been
installed.
This is the entry point that PEIMs shall use. This service can use all platform PEI Services, and when main
memory is available, it can even construct a GUIDed HOB that conveys the pre-DXE data. This service can
also publish an interface that is usable only from the DXE phase. This entry point should not be the same as
that published to the PEIMs, and the implementation of this code path should not do the following:
• Use any PEI Services or PPIs from other modules.
• Make any presumptions about global memory allocation.
It can only operate on its local stack activation frame and must be careful about using I/O and memory-
mapped I/O resources. These concerns, including the latter warning, arise because this service could be used
during the “blackout” period between the termination of PEI and the beginning of DXE, prior to the loading of
the DXE progress code driver. As such, the ownership of the memory map and platform resource allocation is
indeterminate at this point in the platform evolution.
Related Definitions
//
// Status Code Type Definition
//
(continues on next page)
I-8.7. Status Code Service
I-42
