UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
the PEI phase has no permanent memory available until nearly the end of the phase, the range of services
created during the PEI phase cannot be as rich as those created during later phases. Because the location of
the PEI Foundation and its temporary RAM is not known at build time, a pointer to the PEI Services Table is
passed into each PEIM’s entry point and also to part of each PEIM-to-PEIM Interface (PPI).
The PEI Foundation provides the classes of services listed in See PEI Foundation Classes of Service. .
Table 6.1: PEI Foundation Classes of Service
PPI Services
Manages PPIs to facilitate intermodule calls between
PEIMs Interfaces are installed and tracked on a
database maintained in temporary RAM
Boot Mode Services
Manages the boot mode S3 S5 normal boot diagnos-
tics etc of the system
HOB Services
Creates data structures called Hand Off Blocks HOBs
that are used to pass information to the next phase
of the PI Architecture
Firmware Volume Services
Finds PEIMs and other firmware files in the firmware
volumes
PEI Memory Services
Provides a collection of memory management ser-
vices for use both before and after permanent mem-
ory has been discovered
Status Code Services
Provides common progress and error code reporting
services for example port 080h or a serial port for
simple text output for debug
Reset Services
Provides a common means by which to initiate a
warm or cold restart of the system
I-6.4 PEI Foundation
The PEI Foundation is the entity that is responsible for the following:
• Successfully dispatching Pre-EFI Initialization Modules (PEIMs)
• Maintaining the boot mode
• Initializing permanent memory
• Invoking the Driver Execution Environment (DXE) loader
The PEI Foundation is written to be portable across all platforms of a given instruction-set architecture. As
such, a binary for 32-bit Intel ® architecture (IA-32) should work across all Pentium ® processors, from
the Pentium II processor with MMXTMtechnology through the latest Pentium 4 processors. Similarly, the PEI
Foundation binary for the Itanium ® processor family should work across all Itanium processors.
Regardless of the processor microarchitecture, the set of services exposed by the PEI Foundation should be the
same. This uniform surface area around the PEI Foundation allows PEIMs to be written in the C programming
language and compiled across any microarchitecture.
I-6.5 PEI Dispatcher
The PEI Dispatcher is essentially a state machine that is implemented in the PEI Foundation. The PEI
Dispatcher evaluates the dependency expressions in Pre-EFI Initialization Modules (PEIMs) that are in the
firmware volume(s) being examined.
I-6.4. PEI Foundation
I-12
