CHAPTER
TWELVE
DXE ARCHITECTURAL PROTOCOLS
II-12.1 Introduction
The DXE Foundation is abstracted from the platform hardware through a set of architectural protocols. These
protocols function just like other protocols in every way. The only difference is that these architectural
protocols are the protocols that the DXE Foundation itself consumes to produce the UEFI Boot Services, UEFI
Runtime Services, and DXE Services. DXE drivers that are loaded from firmware volumes produce the DXE
Architectural Protocols. This means that the DXE Foundation must have enough services to load and start
DXE drivers before even a single DXE driver is executed.
The DXE Foundation is passed a HOB list that must contain a description of some amount of system memory
and at least one firmware volume. The system memory descriptors in the HOB list are used to initialize the
UEFI services that require only memory to function correctly. The system is also guaranteed to be running
on only one processor in flat physical mode with interrupts disabled. The firmware volume is passed to the
DXE Dispatcher, and the DXE Dispatcher must contain a read-only firmware file system driver to search for
the a priori file and any DXE drivers in the firmware volumes. When a driver is discovered that needs to be
loaded and executed, the DXE Dispatcher will use a PE/COFF loader to load and invoke the DXE driver. The
early DXE drivers will produce the DXE Architectural Protocols, so the DXE Foundation can produce the full
complement of UEFI Boot Services and UEFI Runtime Services.
The following figure shows the HOB list being passed to the DXE Foundation.
The DXE Foundation consumes the services of the DXE Architectural Protocols and produces the following:
• UEFI System Table
• UEFI Boot Services Table
• UEFI Runtime Services Table
• DXE Services Table
The UEFI Boot Services Table and DXE Services Table are allocated from UEFI boot services memory, which
means that the UEFI Boot Services Table and DXE Services Table are freed when the OS runtime phase is
entered. The UEFI System Table and UEFI Runtime Services Table are allocated from UEFI runtime services
memory, and they persist into the OS runtime phase.
When executing upon an UEFI-compliant system, UEFI drivers, applications, and UEFI-aware operating
systems can discern if the platform is built upon the Foundation by searching for the DXE Services Table GUID
in the UEFI System configuration table. The DXE Architectural Protocols shown on the left of the figure are
used to produce the UEFI Boot Services and DXE Services.
The DXE Foundation and these protocols will be freed when the system transitions to the OS runtime phase.
The DXE Architectural Protocols shown on the right are used to produce the UEFI Runtime Services. These
services will persist in the OS runtime phase. The Runtime Architectural Protocol in the middle is unique.
This protocol provides the services that are required to transition the runtime services from physical mode
II-92
