UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
HPC
Hot Plug Controller. A generic term that refers to both a PHPC and a CardBus bridge.
HPRT
Hot Plug Resource Table.
Incompatible PCI device
A PCI device that does not fully comply with the PCI Specification. Typically, this kind of device has
a special requirement for Base Address Register (BAR) allocation. Some devices may want a special
resource length or alignment, while others may want fixed I/O or memory locations.
JEITA
Japan Electronics and Information Technology Association.
legacy PHPC
PCI devices that can be identified by their class code but were defined prior to the PCI Standard Hot-Plug
Controller and Subsystem Specification , revision 1.0. These devices have a base class of 0x6, subclass of
0x4, and programming interface of 0.
MWI
Memory Write and Invalidate. See the PCI Local Bus Specification, revision 2.3, for more information.
PC Card
Integrated circuit cards that follow the PC Card Standard. “PC Card” is a generic term that is used to
refer to 16-bit PC Cards, 32-bit CardBus PC Cards, and high-performance CardBay PC Cards.
PC Card Standard
Refers to the set of specifications that are produced jointly by the PCMCIA and JEITA. This standard was
defined to promote interchangeability among mobile computers.
PCI bus
A generic term used to describe any PCI-like buses, including conventional PCI, PCI-X*, and PCI Express*.
From a software standpoint, a PCI bus is collection of up to 32 physical PCI devices that share the same
physical PCI bus.
PCI bus driver
Software that creates a handle for every PCI controller in the system and installs both the PCI I/O
Protocol and the Device Path Protocol onto that handle. It may optionally perform PCI enumeration
if resources have not already been allocated to all the PCI controllers. It also loads and starts any EFI
drivers that are found in any PCI option ROMs that were discovered during PCI enumeration.
PCI configuration space
The configuration channel that is defined by PCI to configure PCI devices into the resource domain of
the system. Each PCI device must produce a standard set of registers in the form of a PCI configuration
header and can optionally produce device-specific registers. The registers are addressed via Type 0
or Type 1 PCI configuration cycles as described by the PCI Specification. The PCI configuration space
can be shared across multiple PCI buses. On Intel® architecture-based systems, the PCI configuration
space is accessed via I/O ports 0xCF8 and 0xCFC. The PCI Express configuration space is accessed via a
memory-mapped aperture.
PCI controller
A hardware components that is discovered by a PCI bus driver and is managed by a PCI device driver.
This document uses the terms “PCI function” and “PCI controller” equivalently.
PCI device
A collection of up to 8 PCI functions that share the same PCI configuration space. A PCI device is
physically connected to a PCI bus.
PCI enumeration
The process of assigning resources to all the PCI controllers on a given PCI host bridge. This process
V-1.2. Terms Used in this Document
V-2
