CHAPTER
EIGHT
INTERACTIONS WITH PEI, DXE, AND BDS
IV-8.1 Introduction
This chapter describes issues related to image verification and interactions between SM and other PI Architec-
ture phases.
IV-8.2 MM and DXE
IV-8.2.1 Software MMI Communication Interface (Method #1)
During the boot service phase of DXE/UEFI, there will be a messaging mechanism between MM and DXE
drivers. This mechanism will allow a gradual state evolution of the SM handlers during the boot phase.
The purpose of the DXE/UEFI communication is to allow interfaces from either runtime or boot services to be
proxied into SM. For example, a vendor may choose to implement their UEFI Variable Services in SM. The
motivation to do so would include a design in which the SM code performed error logging by writing data to an
UEFI variable in flash. The error generation would be asynchronous with respect to the foreground operating
system (OS). A problem is that the OS could be writing an UEFI variable when the error condition, such as a
Single-Bit Error (SBE) that was generated from main memory, occurred. To avoid two agents–SM and UEFI
Runtime–both trying to write to flash at the same time, the runtime implementation of the SetVariable() UEFI
call would simply be an invocation of the EFI_MM_COMMUNICATION_PROTOCOL.Communicate() interface.
Then, the SM code would internally serialize the error logging flash write request and the OS SetVariable()
request.
See the EFI_MM_COMMUNICATION_PROTOCOL.Communicate() service for more information on this interface.
IV-8.2.2 Software MMI Communication Interface (Method #2)
This section describes an alternative mechanism that can be used to initiate inter-mode communication. This
mechanism can be used in the OS present environment by non-firmware agents. Inter-mode communication
can be initiated using special software MMI.
Details regarding the MMI are described in the SM Communication ACPI Table. This table is described in
Appendix O of the UEFI Specification .
Firmware processes this software MMI in the same manner it processes direct invocation of the Communicate()
function.
IV-113
