UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
III-1.3.1 Data Structure Descriptions
Supported processors are “little endian” machines. This distinction means that the low-order byte of a
multibyte data item in memory is at the lowest address, while the high-order byte is at the highest address.
Some supported processors may be configured for both “little endian” and “big endian” operation. All
implementations designed to conform to this specification will use “little endian” operation.
In some memory layout descriptions, certain fields are marked reserved. Software must initialize such fields
to zero and ignore them when read. On an update operation, software must preserve any reserved field.
The data structures described in this document generally have the following format:
STRUCTURE NAME
The formal name of the data structure.
Summary
A brief description of the data structure.
Prototype
A “C-style” type declaration for the data structure.
Parameters
A brief description of each field in the data structure prototype.
Description
A description of the functionality provided by the data structure, including any limitations and caveats
of which the caller should be aware.
Related Definitions
The type declarations and constants that are used only by this data structure.
III-1.3.2 Pseudo-Code Conventions
Pseudo code is presented to describe algorithms in a more concise form. None of the algorithms in this
document are intended to be compiled directly. The code is presented at a level corresponding to the
surrounding text.
In describing variables, a list is an unordered collection of homogeneous objects. A queue is an ordered list of
homogeneous objects. Unless otherwise noted, the ordering is assumed to be First In First Out (FIFO).
Pseudo code is presented in a C-like format, using C conventions where appropriate. The coding style, partic-
ularly the indentation style, is used for readability and does not necessarily comply with an implementation
of the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface Specification (UEFI 2.0 specification).
III-1.3.3 Typographic Conventions
This document uses the typographic and illustrative conventions described below:
Plain text
The normal text typeface is used for the vast majority of the descriptive text in a specification.
Plain text (blue)
In the online help version of this specification, any plain text that is underlined and in blue indicates an
active link to the cross-reference. Click on the word to follow the hyperlink. Note that these links are
not active in the PDF of the specification.
Bold
In text, a Bold typeface identifies a processor register name. In other instances, a Bold typeface can be
used as a running head within a paragraph.
III-1.3. Conventions Used in this Document
III-2
