UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
On reaching the Ordered List from the private data we can obtain Plabel & MCA Handle Context. Using that
we can execute each handle as they appear in the ordered list.
Once the last handler has completed execution, the MCA dispatcher is responsible for deciding whether to
resume execution, halt the platform or reset the platform. This is based on the OS request and platform
policies. Resuming to the interrupted context is accomplished by calling PAL_MC_RESUME.
As shown in Basic MCA processing flow, the MCA handling flow requires access to certain shared hardware
and software resources to support things such as error logging, error handling/correction and processor
rendezvous. In addition, since MCAs are asynchronous, they might happen while other parts of the system
are using those shared resources or while accessing those resources (for example during the execution of a
SAL_PROC like PCI config write). We thus need a mechanism to allow shared access to two isolated model
which are not aware of each others.
This is handled through the use of common code (libraries) and semaphores. The SAL PROCs and the
MCAA/INIT code use the same libraries to implement any functionality shared between them such as platform
reset, stall, PCI read/write. Semaphores are used to gate access to critical portion of the code and prevent
multiple accesses to the same HW resource at the same time. To prevent deadlocks and guarantee proper
OS handling of an MCA it might be necessary for the MCA/INIT handler to break semaphore or gets priority
access to protected resources.
In addition to the previously mentioned semaphores used for gating access to HW resource, the multi-
threaded/MP MCA model may require an MCA specific semaphore to support things like monarch processor
selection and log access. This semaphore should be visible from all processors. In addition some global are
required for MCA processing to indicate a processor status (entering MCA, in MCA rendezvous, ready to enter
OS MCA) with regards to the current MCA. This flags need to have a global scope since the MCA monarch
may need to access them to make sure all processor are where they are supposed to be.
IV-10.3 INIT Handling
Most of what have been defined for the MCA handling and dispatcher applies to the INIT code path. The early
part of the INIT code path, up to the INIT dispatcher is identical to the MCA code path while some of the INIT
handler code, like logging, can be shared with the MCA handler.
The INIT code path in a typical machine based on IPF architecture is shown in the diagram below.
Fig. 10.5: PI INIT processing flow
Like MCA, INIT processing starts in the PAL code in physical mode and then flows into PI code (OEM firmware
code) through SALE_ENTRY. The INIT dispatcher is responsible for setting up a stack and backing store,
saving the floating point registers before calling any code that may be written in higher level languages. At
that point the dispatcher is ready to call the INIT handlers. As with MCA only one handler is required to exist
but OEMs are free to implement a monolithic handler or use multiple handlers. Once the last handler has
been executed, the dispatcher will resume to the interrupted context or reset the platform based on the OS
request.
The MCA handler limitations regarding access to shared HW and SW resources applies to the INIT handler, as
such library code and common semaphores should be used.
IV-10.3. INIT Handling
IV-120
