UEFI Platform Initialization Specification, Release 1.10
V-8.5.1 Phases in the S3 Resume Boot Path
V-8.5.1.1 SEC and the S3 Resume Boot Path
The Security (SEC) phase is the first architectural phase in the PI Architecture. It builds the root of trust for
the entire system. As such, the SEC phase remains intact in the S3 resume boot path.
V-8.5.1.2 PEI
V-8.5.1.2.1 PEI and the S3 Resume Boot Path
The PEI phase initializes the platform with the minimum configuration needed to enable the execution of the
DXE phase. During the S3 resume boot path, the PI Architechture still needs to restore the PEI portion of
configuration.
Each PEIM is “boot path aware” in that the PEIM can call the appropriate PEI service to find out what the
current boot path is. This awareness enables the platform to restore more efficiently because the same PEIM
can save the configuration during a normal boot path and take advantage of that configuration in the S3
resume boot path. The figure below shows how the PEI phase works in a normal boot path and in an S3
resume boot path.
Fig. 8.2: PEI Phase in S3 Resume Boot Path
V-8.5.1.2.2 Saving Configuration Data in PEI
There are different ways to save configuration data, such as the firmware volume variable, for the PEI phase
in nonvolatile storage (NVS). One way is to save the data directly in the PEI phase. However, if the PEI phase
does not implement the capability to write to a firmware volume, a PEIM can choose to pass the configuration
data to the DXE phase using a Hand-Off Block (HOB). The PEIM’s DXE counterpart or another appropriate
DXE component can then save the configuration data. The figure below illustrates this mechanism to save the
configuration data. See the PI Specification for more details on HOBs.
To achieve higher performance, it is recommended to implement the latter mechanism because code running
in the PEI phase is more time consuming than code running in the DXE phase. Note that the way to save the
configuration data during the PEI phase is outside the scope of this document.
V-8.5.1.3 DXE
V-8.5.1.3.1 DXE and the S3 Resume Boot Path
In the DXE phase during a normal boot path, various DXE drivers collectively bring the platform to the preboot
state. However, bringing DXE into the S3 resume boot path and making a DXE driver boot-path aware is very
risky for the following reasons:
V-8.5. Restoring the Platform
V-60
