16
Instruction Encoding
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
Implications for INC and DEC Instructions
The REX prefix values are taken from the 16 single-byte INC and DEC instructions, one for each of
the eight legacy GPRs. Therefore, these single-byte opcodes for INC and DEC are not available in 64-
bit mode, although they are available in legacy and compatibility modes. The functionality of these
INC and DEC instructions is still available in 64-bit mode, however, using the ModRM forms of those
instructions (opcodes FF /0 and FF /1). 
1.2.8    VEX, XOP, and EVEX Prefixes
The extended instruction encoding syntax, available in protected and long modes, provides one
two-byte and three three-byte escape sequences introduced by either the VEX or XOP prefixes. These
multi-byte sequences not only select opcode maps, they also provide instruction modifiers similar to,
but in lieu of, the REX prefix.
The two-byte escape sequence initiated by the VEX C5h prefix implies a map_select encoding of 1.
The three-byte escape sequences, initiated by the VEX C4h prefix or the XOP (8Fh) prefix, select the
target opcode map explicitly via the VEX/XOP.map_select field. The five-bit VEX.map_select field
allows the selection of one of 31 different opcode maps (opcode map 00h is reserved). The
XOP.map_select field is restricted to the range 08h–1Fh and thus can only select one of 24 different
opcode maps. The four-byte escape sequence, initiated by the EVEX 62h prefix selects the target
opcode map explicitly via the EVEX.map field.
The VEX and XOP escape sequences contain fields that extend register addressing to a total of 16,
increase the operand specification capability to four operands, and modify the instruction operation.
The EVEX escape sequences contain fields that extend register addressing to a total of 32, and modify
the instruction operation.
The extended SSE instruction subsets AVX, AES, CLMU, FMA, FMA4, and XOP and a few non-SSE
instructions utilize the extended encoding syntax. See “Encoding Using the VEX and XOP Prefixes”
on page 29 for details on the encoding of the two- and three-byte extended escape sequences.
The extended SSE instruction subset AVX512 utilizes the EVEX prefix encoding syntax. See
“Encoding Using the EVEX Prefix” on page 34 for details on encoding the EVEX escape sequence.
1.3
Opcode
The opcode is a single byte that specifies the basic operation of an instruction. In some cases, it also
specifies the operands for the instruction. Every instruction requires an opcode. The correspondence
between the binary value of the opcode and the operation it represents is defined by a table called an
opcode map. As discussed in the previous sections, the legacy prefixes 66h, F2h, and F3h and other
fields within the instruction encoding may be used to modify the operation encoded by the opcode. 
The affect of the presence of a 66h, F2h, or F3h prefix on the operation performed by the opcode is
represented in the opcode map by additional rows in the table indexed by the applicable prefix. The 3-
bit reg and r/m fields of the ModRM byte (“ModRM Byte Format” on page 17 and “SIB Byte Format”
[AMD Public Use]
