Instruction Encoding
11
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
for such memory-referencing instructions is implied by the base register indicated in its ModRM byte,
as follows:
•
Instructions that Reference a Non-Stack Segment—If an instruction encoding references any base
register other than rBP or rSP, or if an instruction contains an immediate offset, the default segment
is the data segment (DS). These instructions can use the segment-override prefix to select one of
the non-default segments, as shown in Table 1-5. 
•
String Instructions—String instructions reference two memory operands. By default, they
reference both the DS and ES segments (DS:rSI and ES:rDI). These instructions can override their
DS-segment reference, as shown in Table 1-5, but they cannot override their ES-segment
reference. 
•
Instructions that Reference the Stack Segment—If an instruction’s encoding references the rBP or
rSP base register, the default segment is the stack segment (SS). All instructions that reference the
stack (push, pop, call, interrupt, return from interrupt) use SS by default. These instructions cannot
use the segment-override prefix. 
Segment Overrides in 64-Bit Mode.   In 64-bit mode, the CS, DS, ES, and SS segment-override
prefixes have no effect. These four prefixes are not treated as segment-override prefixes for the
purposes of multiple-prefix rules. Instead, they are treated as null prefixes.
The FS and GS segment-override prefixes are treated as true segment-override prefixes in 64-bit
mode. Use of the FS or GS prefix causes their respective segment bases to be added to the effective
address calculation. See “FS and GS Registers in 64-Bit Mode” in APM Volume 2 for details. 
1.2.5    Lock Prefix
The LOCK prefix causes certain kinds of memory read-modify-write instructions to occur atomically.
The mechanism for doing so is implementation-dependent (for example, the mechanism may involve
bus signaling or packet messaging between the processor and a memory controller). The prefix is
intended to give the processor exclusive use of shared memory in a multiprocessor system.
Table 1-5.
Segment-Override Prefixes
Mnemonic
Prefix Byte 
(Hex)
Description
CS1
2E
Forces use of current CS segment for memory operands.
DS1
3E
Forces use of current DS segment for memory operands.
ES1
26
Forces use of current ES segment for memory operands.
FS
64
Forces use of current FS segment for memory operands.
GS
65
Forces use of current GS segment for memory operands.
SS1
36
Forces use of current SS segment for memory operands.
Notes:
1. In 64-bit mode, the CS, DS, ES, and SS segment overrides are ignored unless Upper
Address Ignore is enabled.
[AMD Public Use]
