218
General-Purpose
Instruction Reference
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
Computes the effective address of a memory location (second operand) and stores it in a general-
purpose register (first operand). 
The address size of the memory location and the size of the register determine the specific action taken
by the instruction, as follows:
•
If the address size and the register size are the same, the instruction stores the effective address as
computed.
•
If the address size is longer than the register size, the instruction truncates the effective address to
the size of the register.
•
If the address size is shorter than the register size, the instruction zero-extends the effective address
to the size of the register.
If the second operand is a register, an undefined-opcode exception occurs.
The LEA instruction is related to the MOV instruction, which copies data from a memory location to a
register, but LEA takes the address of the source operand, whereas MOV takes the contents of the
memory location specified by the source operand. In the simplest cases, LEA can be replaced with
MOV. For example:
lea eax, [ebx]
has the same effect as:
mov eax, ebx
However, LEA allows software to use any valid ModRM and SIB addressing mode for the source
operand. For example:
lea eax, [ebx+edi]
loads the sum of the EBX and EDI registers into the EAX register. This could not be accomplished by
a single MOV instruction. 
The LEA instruction has a limited capability to perform multiplication of operands in general-purpose
registers using scaled-index addressing. For example:
lea eax, [ebx+ebx*8]
loads the value of the EBX register, multiplied by 9, into the EAX register. Possible values of
multipliers are 2, 4, 8, 3, 5, and 9.
The LEA instruction is widely used in string-processing and array-processing to initialize an index
register (rSI or rDI) before performing string instructions such as MOVSx. It is also used to initialize
the rBX register before performing the XLAT instruction in programs that perform character
translations. In data structures, the LEA instruction can calculate addresses of operands stored in
memory, and in particular, addresses of array or string elements. 
LEA
Load Effective Address
[AMD Public Use]
