614
Instruction Subsets and CPUID Feature Flags
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
D.1
Instruction Set Overview
The AMD64 ISA can be organized into five instruction groups:
1. General-purpose instructions
These instructions operate on the general-purpose registers (GP registers) and can be used at all
privilege levels. This group includes instructions to load and store the contents of a GP register to
and from memory, move values between the GP registers, and perform arithmetic and logical
operations on the contents of the registers.
2. System instructions
These instructions provide the means to manipulate the processor operating mode, access
processor resources, handle program and system errors, and manage system memory. Many of
these instructions require privilege level 0 to execute.
3. x87 instructions
These instructions are available at all privilege levels and include legacy floating-point
instructions that use the ST(0)–ST(7) stack registers (FPR0–FPR7 physical registers) and
internally use extended precision (80-bit) binary floating-point representation and operations.
4. 64-bit media Instructions
These instructions are available at all privilege levels and perform vector operations on packed
integer and floating-point values held in the 64-bit MMXTM registers. The MMX register set
overlays the FPR0–FPR7 physical registers. This group is composed of the MMX and 3DNow!TM
instruction subsets and was subsequently expanded by the MMX and 3DNow! extensions subsets.
5. SSE instructions
The SSE instructions operate on packed integer and floating-point values held in the XMM / YMM
/ ZMM registers. SSE includes the original Streaming SIMD Extensions, all the subsequent named
SSE subsets, and the AVX512, AVX, XOP, and AES instructions.
Figure D-1 on page 615 represents the relationship between the five major instruction groups and the 
named instruction subsets. Circles represent the instruction subsets. These include the base instruction 
set labeled “Base Instructions” in the diagram and the named subsets. The diagram omits individual 
optional instructions and some of the minor named instruction subsets. Dashed-line polygons 
represent the instruction groups. 
Note that the 128-bit, 256-bit and 512-bit media instructions are referred to collectively as the 
Streaming SIMD Extensions (SSE). This is also the name of the original SSE subset. In the diagram 
the original SSE subset is labeled “SSE1 Instructions.” Collectively the 64-bit media and the SSE 
instructions make up the single instruction / multiple data (SIMD) group (labeled “SIMD Instructions” 
in the diagram).
The overlapping of the SSE and 64-bit media instruction subsets indicates that these subsets share 
some common mnemonics. However, these common mnemonics either have distinct opcodes for each 
subset or they take operands in both the MMX and XMM register sets.
[AMD Public Use]
