Instruction Encoding
3
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
bytes used to encode the instruction. Note that the path shown above the legacy prefix byte loops back
indicating that up to four additional prefix bytes may be used in the encoding of a single instruction.
Branches indicate points in the syntax where alternate semantics are employed based on the instruction
being encoded. The “VEX or XOP” gate across the path leading down to the VEX prefix and XOP
prefix blocks means that only extended instructions employing the VEX or XOP prefixes use this
particular branch of the syntax diagram. This diagram will be further explained in the sections that
follow.
1.1.1.1  Legacy Prefixes
As shown in the figure, an instruction optionally begins with up to five legacy prefixes. These prefixes
are described in “Summary of Legacy Prefixes” on page 6. The legacy prefixes modify an instruction’s
default address size, operand size, or segment, or they invoke a special function such as modification
of the opcode, atomic bus-locking, or repetition. 
In the encoding of most SSE instructions, a legacy operand-size or repeat prefix is repurposed to
modify the opcode. For the extended encodings utilizing the XOP or VEX prefixes, these prefixes are
not allowed.
1.1.1.2  REX Prefix
Following the optional legacy prefix or prefixes, the REX prefix can be used in 64-bit mode to access
the AMD64 register number and size extensions. Refer to the diagram in “Application-Programming
Register Set” in APM Volume 1 for an illustration of these facilities. If a REX prefix is used, it must
immediately precede the opcode byte or the first byte of a legacy escape sequence. The REX prefix is
not allowed in extended instruction encodings using the VEX, XOP, or EVEX encoding escape
prefixes. Violating this restriction results in an #UD exception.
1.1.1.3  Opcode
The opcode is a single byte that specifies the basic operation of an instruction. Every instruction
requires an opcode. The correspondence between the binary value of an opcode and the operation it
represents is presented in a table called an opcode map. Because it is indexed by an 8-bit value, an
opcode map has 256 entries. Since there are more than 256 instructions defined by the architecture,
multiple different opcode maps must be defined and the selection of these alternate opcode maps must
be encoded in the instruction. Escape sequences provide this access to alternate opcode maps. 
If there are no opcode escapes, the primary (“one-byte”) opcode map is used. In the figure this is the
path pointing from the REX Prefix block to the Primary opcode map block. 
Section  “Primary Opcode Map” of Appendix A provides details concerning this opcode map.
1.1.1.4  Escape Sequences
Escape sequences allow access to alternate opcode maps that are distinct from the primary opcode
map. Escape sequences may be one, two, or three bytes in length and begin with a unique byte value
designated for this purpose in the primary opcode map. Escape sequences are of two distinct types:
legacy escape sequences and extended escape sequences. The legacy escape sequences will be covered
[AMD Public Use]
