System Instruction Reference
445
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Loads the value of the processor’s 64-bit time-stamp counter into registers EDX:EAX, and loads the
value of TSC_AUX into ECX. This instruction ignores operand size. 
The time-stamp counter is contained in a 64-bit model-specific register (MSR). The processor sets the
counter to 0 upon reset and increments the counter every clock cycle. INIT does not modify the TSC.
The high-order 32 bits are loaded into EDX, and the low-order 32 bits are loaded into the EAX
register.
The TSC_AUX value is contained in the low-order 32 bits of the TSC_AUX register (MSR address
C000_0103h). This MSR is initialized by privileged software to any meaningful value, such as a
processor ID, that software wants to associate with the returned TSC value.
When the time-stamp disable flag (TSD) in CR4 is set to 1, the RDTSCP instruction can only be used
at privilege level 0. If the TSD flag is 0, this instruction can be used at any privilege level.
Unlike the RDTSC instruction, RDTSCP forces all older instructions to retire before reading the time-
stamp counter.
The behavior of the RDTSCP instruction is implementation dependent. The TSC counts at a constant
rate, but may be affected by power management events (such as frequency changes), depending on the
processor implementation. If CPUID Fn8000_0007_EDX[TscInvariant] = 1, then the TSC rate is
ensured to be invariant across all P-States, C-States, and stop-grant transitions (such as STPCLK
Throttling); therefore, the TSC is suitable for use as a source of time. Consult the BIOS and Kernel
Developer’s Guide applicable to your product for information concerning the effect of power
management on the TSC.
Support for the RDTSCP instruction is indicated by CPUID Fn8000_0001_EDX[RDTSCP] = 1. For
more information on using the CPUID instruction, see the description of the CPUID instruction on
page 171.
Instruction Encoding
Related Instructions
RDTSC
rFLAGS Affected
None
RDTSCP
Read Time-Stamp Counter
and Processor ID
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
RDTSCP
0F 01 F9
Copy the time-stamp counter into EDX:EAX and 
the TSC_AUX register into ECX.
[AMD Public Use]
