522
Opcode and Operand Encodings
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
ps
A single-precision floating-point vector operand (packed single-precision).
pw
Vector composed of 16-bit words (packed word).
q
A quadword (64 bits), irrespective of the effective operand size.
s
A 6-byte or 10-byte pseudo-descriptor.
sd
A scalar double-precision floating-point operand (scalar double).
sj
A scalar doubleword (32-bit) integer operand (scalar double integer).
ss
A scalar single-precision floating-point operand (scalar single).
v
A word, doubleword, or quadword (in 64-bit mode), depending on the effective operand size.
w
A word, irrespective of the effective operand size.
x
Instruction supports both vector sizes (128 bits or 256 bits). Size is encoded using the 
VEX/XOP.L field. (L=0: 128 bits; L=1: 256 bits). This symbol may be appended to ps or pd to 
represent a packed single- or double-precision floating-point vector of either size; or to pk, pi, pj, 
or pq, to represent a packed 8-bit, 16-bit, 32-bit, or 64-bit packed integer vector of either size.
y
A doubleword or quadword depending on effective operand size.
z
A word if the effective operand size is 16 bits, or a doubleword if the effective operand size is 32 
or 64 bits.
For the EVEX encoded instructions, there are 2 modifiers that may be present:
.k
The instruction takes a K mask in EVEX.aaa that enables merge-masking.
.kz
The instruction takes a K mask in EVEX.aaa that enables merge-masking or zero-masking, 
depending on the value of EVEX.z.
For some instructions, fields in the ModRM or SIB byte are used as encoding extensions. This is 
indicated using the following notation:
/n
A ModRM-byte reg field or SIB-byte base field, where n is a value between zero (000b) and 7 
(111b).
For SSE instructions that take scalar operands, VEX/XOP.L field is ignored.
For immediates and memory-based operands, only the size and not the data type is indicated. Operand 
widths and data types are specified based on the source operands. For instructions where the result 
overwrites one of the source registers, the data width and data type of the result may not match that of 
the source register. See individual instruction descriptions for more details.
A.1
Opcode Maps
In all of the following opcode maps, cells shaded gray represent reserved opcodes.
[AMD Public Use]
