24
Instruction Encoding
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
REX.B: Base field extension (Bit 0).   The REX.B bit adds a 1-bit (msb) extension to either the
ModRM.r/m field to specify a GPR or XMM register, or to the SIB.base field to specify a GPR. (See
Table 2-2 on page 61 for more about the B bit.)
1.5
Displacement Bytes
A displacement (also called an offset) is a signed value that is added to the base of a code segment
(absolute addressing) or to an instruction pointer (relative addressing), depending on the addressing
mode. The size of a displacement is 1, 2, or 4 bytes. If an addressing mode requires a displacement, the
bytes (1, 2, or 4) for the displacement follow the opcode, ModRM, or SIB byte (whichever comes last)
in the instruction encoding.
In 64-bit mode, the same ModRM and SIB encodings are used to specify displacement sizes as those
used in legacy and compatibility modes. However, the displacement is sign-extended to 64 bits during
effective-address calculations. Also, in 64-bit mode, support is provided for some 64-bit displacement
and immediate forms of the MOV instruction. See “Immediate Operand Size” in Volume 1 for more
information.
For EVEX encoded instructions, one-byte displacements are scaled by a factor 'N'. See Section 4.13.8,
“Disp8*N” in Volume 1 for more details.
1.6
Immediate Bytes
An immediate is a value—typically an operand value—encoded directly into the instruction.
Depending on the opcode and the operating mode, the size of an immediate operand can be 1, 2, 4, or 8
bytes. 64-bit immediates are allowed in 64-bit mode on MOV instructions that load GPRs, otherwise
they are limited to 4 bytes. See “Immediate Operand Size” in APM Volume 1 for more information.
If an instruction takes an immediate operand, the bytes (1, 2, 4, or 8) for the immediate follow the
opcode, ModRM, SIB, or displacement bytes (whichever come last) in the instruction encoding. Some
128-bit media instructions use the immediate byte as a condition code.
1.7
RIP-Relative Addressing
In 64-bit mode, addressing relative to the contents of the 64-bit instruction pointer (program
counter)—called RIP-relative addressing or PC-relative addressing—is implemented for certain
instructions. In such cases, the effective address is formed by adding the displacement to the 64-bit
RIP of the next instruction. 
In the legacy x86 architecture, addressing relative to the instruction pointer is available only in control-
transfer instructions. In the 64-bit mode, any instruction that uses ModRM addressing can use RIP-
relative addressing. This feature is particularly useful for addressing data in position-independent code
and for code that addresses global data. 
[AMD Public Use]
