Obtaining Processor Information Via the CPUID Instruction
621
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Appendix E Obtaining Processor Information Via 
the CPUID Instruction
This appendix specifies the information that software can obtain about the processor on which it is 
running by executing the CPUID instruction. The information in this appendix supersedes the con-
tents of the CPUID Specification, order #25481, which is now obsolete.
The CPUID instruction is described on page 171. This appendix does not replace the CPUID 
instruction reference information presented there.
The CPUID instruction behaves much like a function call. Parameters are passed to the instruction via 
registers and on execution the instruction loads specific registers with return values. These return 
values can be interpreted by software based on the field definitions and their assigned meanings.
The first input parameter is the function number which is passed to the instruction via the EAX 
register. Some functions also accept a second input parameter passed via the ECX register. Values are 
returned via the EAX, EBX, ECX, and EDX registers. Software should not assume that any values 
written to these registers prior to the execution of CPUID instruction will be retained after the 
instruction executes (even those that are marked reserved). 
The description of each return value breaks the value down into one or more named fields which 
represent a bit position or contiguous range of bits. All bit positions that are not defined as fields are 
reserved. The value of bits within reserved ranges cannot be relied upon to be zero. Software must 
mask off all reserved bits in the return value prior to making any value comparisons of represented 
information.
This appendix applies to all AMD processors with a family designation of 0Fh or greater.
E.1
Special Notational Conventions
The following special notation conventions are used in this appendix:
•
The notation (standard throughout this APM) for representing the function number, optional input 
parameter, and the information returned is as follows:
CPUID FnXXXX_XXXX_RRR[FieldName]_xYYY.
Where:
-
XXXX_XXXX is the function number represented in hexadecimal (passed to the instruction in 
EAX).
-
RRR is one of {EDX, ECX, EBX, EAX} and represents a register holding a return value.
-
YYY represents the optional input parameter passed in the ECX register expressed as a 
hexadecimal number. If this parameter is not used, the characters represented by _xYYY are 
omitted from the notation.
[AMD Public Use]
