186
General-Purpose
Instruction Reference
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
Multiplies two signed operands. The number of operands determines the form of the instruction.
If a single operand is specified, the instruction multiplies the value in the specified general-purpose
register or memory location by the value in the AL, AX, EAX, or RAX register (depending on the
operand size) and stores the product in AX, DX:AX, EDX:EAX, or RDX:RAX, respectively.
If two operands are specified, the instruction multiplies the value in a general-purpose register (first
operand) by an immediate value or the value in a general-purpose register or memory location (second
operand) and stores the product in the first operand location.
If three operands are specified, the instruction multiplies the value in a general-purpose register or
memory location (second operand), by an immediate value (third operand) and stores the product in a
register (first operand).
The IMUL instruction sign-extends an immediate operand to the length of the other register/memory
operand.
The CF and OF flags are set if, due to integer overflow, the double-width multiplication result cannot
be represented in the half-width destination register. Otherwise the CF and OF flags are cleared.
IMUL
Signed Multiply
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
IMUL reg/mem8
F6 /5
Multiply the contents of AL by the contents of an 8-bit 
memory or register operand and put the signed result in 
AX.
IMUL reg/mem16
F7 /5
Multiply the contents of AX by the contents of a 16-bit 
memory or register operand and put the signed result in 
DX:AX.
IMUL reg/mem32
F7 /5
Multiply the contents of EAX by the contents of a 32-bit 
memory or register operand and put the signed result in 
EDX:EAX.
IMUL reg/mem64
F7 /5
Multiply the contents of RAX by the contents of a 64-bit 
memory or register operand and put the signed result in 
RDX:RAX.
IMUL reg16, reg/mem16
0F AF /r
Multiply the contents of a 16-bit destination register by 
the contents of a 16-bit register or memory operand and 
put the signed result in the 16-bit destination register.
IMUL reg32, reg/mem32
0F AF /r
Multiply the contents of a 32-bit destination register by 
the contents of a 32-bit register or memory operand and 
put the signed result in the 32-bit destination register.
IMUL reg64, reg/mem64
0F AF /r
Multiply the contents of a 64-bit destination register by 
the contents of a 64-bit register or memory operand and 
put the signed result in the 64-bit destination register.
IMUL reg16, reg/mem16, imm8
6B /r ib
Multiply the contents of a 16-bit register or memory 
operand by a sign-extended immediate byte and put the 
signed result in the 16-bit destination register.
[AMD Public Use]
