520
Opcode and Operand Encodings
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
The following list describes the meaning of each letter that is used in the first position of the operand 
notation:
A
A far pointer encoded in the instruction. No ModRM byte in the instruction encoding.
B
General-purpose register specified by the VEX or XOP vvvv field, or by the EVEX V' and vvvv 
fields.
C
Control register specified by the ModRM.reg field.
D
Debug register specified by the ModRM.reg field.
E
General purpose register or memory operand specified by the r/m field of the ModRM byte. For 
memory operands, the ModRM byte may be followed by a SIB byte to specify one of the indexed 
register-indirect addressing forms.
F
rFLAGS register.
G
General purpose register specified by the ModRM.reg field.
H
ZMM, YMM, or XMM register specified by the VEX/XOP.vvvv field or by the EVEX V' and 
vvvv fields.
I
Immediate value encoded in the instruction immediate field.
J
The instruction encoding includes a relative offset that is added to the rIP.
KM K mask register specified by the ModRM.r/m field.
KR
K mask register specified by the ModRM.reg field.
KV
K mask register specified by the VEX.vvvv field or by the EVEX vvvv field.
KW K mask register or memory operand specified by the ModRM.r/m field.
L
YMM or XMM register specified using the most-significant 4 bits of an 8-bit immediate value. 
In legacy or compatibility mode the most significant bit is ignored.
M
A memory operand specified by the {mod, r/m} field of the ModRM byte. ModRM.mod ≠ 11b.
M*
A sparse array of memory operands addressed using the VSIB addressing mode. See “VSIB 
Addressing” in APM Volume 4.
N
64-bit MMX register specified by the ModRM.r/m field. The ModRM.mod field must be 11b.
O
The offset of an operand is encoded in the instruction. There is no ModRM byte in the instruction 
encoding. Indexed register-indirect addressing using the SIB byte is not supported.
P
64-bit MMX register specified by the ModRM.reg field.
Q
64-bit MMX-register or memory operand specified by the {mod, r/m} field of the ModRM byte.
For memory operands, the ModRM byte may be followed by a SIB byte to specify one of the 
indexed register-indirect addressing forms.
R
General purpose register specified by the ModRM.r/m field. The ModRM.mod field must be 
11b.
[AMD Public Use]
