152
General-Purpose
Instruction Reference
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
Flushes the cache line specified by the mem8 linear-address. The instruction checks all levels of the
cache hierarchy-internal caches and external caches-and invalidates the cache line in every cache in
which it is found. If a cache contains a dirty copy of the cache line (that is, the cache line is in the
modified or owned MOESI state), the line is written back to memory before it is invalidated. The
instruction sets the cache-line MOESI state to invalid.
The instruction also checks the physical address corresponding to the linear-address operand against
the processor's write-combining buffers. If the write-combining buffer holds data intended for that
physical address, the instruction writes the entire contents of the buffer to memory. This occurs even
though the data is not cached in the cache hierarchy. In a multiprocessor system, the instruction checks
the write-combining buffers only on the processor that executed the CLFLUSHOPT instruction.
The CLFLUSHOPT instruction is ordered with respect to fence instructions and locked operations.
CLFLUSHOPT is also ordered with writes, CLFLUSH, and CLFLUSHOPT instructions that
reference the same cache line as the CLFLUSHOPT. CLFLUSHOPT is not ordered with writes,
CLFLUSH, and CLFLUSHOPT to other cache lines. To enforce ordering in that situation, a SFENCE
instruction or stronger should be used.
Speculative loads initiated by the processor, or specified explicitly using cache-prefetch instructions,
can be reordered around a CLFLUSHOPT instruction. Such reordering can invalidate a speculatively
prefetched cache line, unintentionally defeating the prefetch operation. 
The only way to avoid this situation is to use the MFENCE instruction after the CLFLUSHOPT
instruction to force strong ordering of the CLFLUSHOPT instruction with respect to subsequent
memory operations. 
The CLFLUSHOPT instruction behaves like a load instruction with respect to setting the page-table
accessed and dirty bits. That is, it sets the page-table accessed bit to 1, but does not set the page-table
dirty bit.
The CLFLUSHOPT instruction executes at any privilege level. CLFLUSHOPT performs all the
segmentation and paging checks that a 1-byte read would perform, except that it also allows references
to execute-only segments.
The CLFLUSHOPT instruction is supported if the feature flag CPUID
Fn0000_0007_EBX_x0[CLFLOPT]is set. The 8-bit field CPUID Fn 0000_0001_EBX[CLFlush]
returns the size of the cacheline in quadwords.
CLFLUSHOPT
Optimized Cache Line Flush
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
CLFLUSHOPT mem8
66 0F AE /7
Flush cache line containing mem8
[AMD Public Use]
