System Instruction Reference
489
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Returns from the operating system to an application. It is a low-latency system return instruction
designed for use by system and application software implementing a flat-segment memory model. 
This is a privileged instruction. The current privilege level must be zero to execute this instruction. An
invalid-opcode exception occurs if this instruction is used in long mode. Software should use the
SYSRET (and SYSCALL) instructions when running in long mode.
When a system procedure performs a SYSEXIT back to application software, the CS selector is
updated to point to the second descriptor entry after the SYSENTER CS value (MSR
SYSENTER_CS+16). The SS selector is updated to point to the third descriptor entry after the
SYSENTER CS value (MSR SYSENTER_CS+24). The CPL is forced to 3, as are the descriptor
privilege levels.
The hidden portions of the CS and SS segment registers are not loaded from the descriptor table as
they would be using a legacy x86 RET instruction. Instead, the hidden portions are forced by the
processor to the following values:
•
The CS and SS base values are forced to 0.
•
The CS and SS limit values are forced to 4 Gbytes.
•
The CS segment attributes are set to 32-bit read/execute at CPL 3.
•
The SS segment attributes are set to read/write and expand-up with a 32-bit stack referenced by
ESP.
System software must create corresponding descriptor-table entries referenced by the new CS and SS
selectors that match the values described above.
The following additional actions result from executing SYSEXIT:
•
EIP is loaded from EDX.
•
ESP is loaded from ECX.
System software must explicitly load the return address and application software-stack pointer into the
EDX and ECX registers prior to executing SYSEXIT.
For additional information on this instruction, see “SYSENTER and SYSEXIT (Legacy Mode Only)”
in APM Volume 2.
Support for the SYSEXIT instruction is indicated by CPUID Fn0000_0001_EDX[SysEnterSysExit] =
1. For more information on using the CPUID instruction, see the description of the CPUID instruction
on page 171.
SYSEXIT
System Return
[AMD Public Use]
