System Instruction Reference
483
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Transfers control to a fixed entry point in an operating system. It is designed for use by system and
application software implementing a flat-segment memory model.
The SYSCALL and SYSRET instructions are low-latency system call and return control-transfer
instructions, which assume that the operating system implements a flat-segment memory model. By
eliminating unneeded checks, and by loading pre-determined values into the CS and SS segment
registers (both visible and hidden portions), calls to and returns from the operating system are greatly
simplified. These instructions can be used in protected mode and are particularly well-suited for use in
64-bit mode, which requires implementation of a paged, flat-segment memory model. 
This instruction has been optimized by reducing the number of checks and memory references that are
normally made so that a call or return takes considerably fewer clock cycles than the CALL FAR /RET
FAR instruction method. 
It is assumed that the base, limit, and attributes of the Code Segment will remain flat for all processes
and for the operating system, and that only the current privilege level for the selector of the calling
process should be changed from a current privilege level of 3 to a new privilege level of 0. It is also
assumed (but not checked) that the RPL of the SYSCALL and SYSRET target selectors are set to 0
and 3, respectively. 
SYSCALL sets the CPL to 0, regardless of the values of bits 33:32 of the STAR register. There are no
permission checks based on the CPL, real mode, or virtual-8086 mode. SYSCALL and SYSRET must
be enabled by setting EFER.SCE to 1.
It is the responsibility of the operating system to keep the descriptors in memory that correspond to the
CS and SS selectors loaded by the SYSCALL and SYSRET instructions consistent with the segment
base, limit, and attribute values forced by these instructions. 
Legacy x86 Mode.   In legacy x86 mode, when SYSCALL is executed, the EIP of the instruction
following the SYSCALL is copied into the ECX register. Bits 31:0 of the SYSCALL/SYSRET target
address register (STAR) are copied into the EIP register. (The STAR register is model-specific register
C000_0081h.) 
New selectors are loaded, without permission checking (see above), as follows:
•
Bits 47:32 of the STAR register specify the selector that is copied into the CS register.
•
Bits 47:32 of the STAR register + 8 specify the selector that is copied into the SS register. 
•
The CS_base and the SS_base are both forced to zero.
•
The CS_limit and the SS_limit are both forced to 4 Gbyte.
•
The CS segment attributes are set to execute/read 32-bit code with a CPL of zero.
•
The SS segment attributes are set to read/write and expand-up with a 32-bit stack referenced by
ESP.
SYSCALL
Fast System Call
[AMD Public Use]
