General-Purpose
225
Instruction Reference
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Copies the byte, word, doubleword, or quadword in the memory location pointed to by the DS:rSI
registers to the AL, AX, EAX, or RAX register, depending on the size of the operand, and then
increments or decrements the rSI register according to the state of the DF flag in the rFLAGS register.
If the DF flag is 0, the instruction increments rSI; otherwise, it decrements rSI. It increments or
decrements rSI by 1, 2, 4, or 8, depending on the number of bytes being loaded.
The forms of the LODS instruction with an explicit operand address the operand at seg:[rSI]. The
value of seg defaults to the DS segment, but may be overridden by a segment prefix. The explicit
operand serves only to specify the type (size) of the value being copied and the specific registers used.
The no-operands forms of the instruction always use the DS:[rSI] registers to point to the value to be
copied (they do not allow a segment prefix). The mnemonic determines the size of the operand and the
specific registers used.
The LODSx instructions support the REP prefixes. For details about the REP prefixes, see “Repeat
Prefixes” on page 12. More often, software uses the LODSx instruction inside a loop controlled by a
LOOPcc instruction as a more efficient replacement for instructions like:
mov eax, dword ptr ds:[esi]
add esi, 4
The LODSQ instruction can only be used in 64-bit mode. 
LODS
LODSB
LODSW
LODSD
LODSQ
Load String
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
LODS mem8
AC
Load byte at DS:rSI into AL and then increment or 
decrement rSI.
LODS mem16
AD
Load word at DS:rSI into AX and then increment or 
decrement rSI.
LODS mem32
AD
Load doubleword at DS:rSI into EAX and then 
increment or decrement rSI.
LODS mem64
AD
Load quadword at DS:rSI into RAX and then increment 
or decrement rSI.
LODSB
AC
Load byte at DS:rSI into AL and then increment or 
decrement rSI.
LODSW
AD
Load the word at DS:rSI into AX and then increment or 
decrement rSI.
[AMD Public Use]
