System Instruction Reference
491
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Returns from the operating system to an application. It is a low-latency system return instruction
designed for use by system and application software implementing a flat segmentation memory model.
The SYSCALL and SYSRET instructions are low-latency system call and return control-transfer
instructions that assume that the operating system implements a flat-segment memory model. By
eliminating unneeded checks, and by loading pre-determined values into the CS and SS segment
registers (both visible and hidden portions), calls to and returns from the operating system are greatly
simplified. These instructions can be used in protected mode and are particularly well-suited for use in
64-bit mode, which requires implementation of a paged, flat-segment memory model. 
This instruction has been optimized by reducing the number of checks and memory references that are
normally made so that a call or return takes substantially fewer internal clock cycles when compared to
the CALL/RET instruction method. 
It is assumed that the base, limit, and attributes of the Code Segment will remain flat for all processes
and for the operating system, and that only the current privilege level for the selector of the calling
process should be changed from a current privilege level of 0 to a new privilege level of 3. It is also
assumed (but not checked) that the RPL of the SYSCALL and SYSRET target selectors are set to 0
and 3, respectively. 
SYSRET sets the CPL to 3, regardless of the values of bits 49:48 of the star register. SYSRET can only
be executed in protected mode at CPL 0. SYSCALL and SYSRET must be enabled by setting
EFER.SCE to 1.
It is the responsibility of the operating system to keep the descriptors in memory that correspond to the
CS and SS selectors loaded by the SYSCALL and SYSRET instructions consistent with the segment
base, limit, and attribute values forced by these instructions. 
When a system procedure performs a SYSRET back to application software, the CS selector is
updated from bits 63:50 of the STAR register (STAR.SYSRET_CS) as follows:
•
If the return is to 32-bit mode (legacy or compatibility), CS is updated with the value of
STAR.SYSRET_CS.
•
If the return is to 64-bit mode, CS is updated with the value of STAR.SYSRET_CS + 16.
In both cases, the CPL is forced to 3, effectively ignoring STAR bits 49:48. The SS selector is updated
to point to the next descriptor-table entry after the CS descriptor (STAR.SYSRET_CS + 8), and its
RPL is not forced to 3. 
The hidden portions of the CS and SS segment registers are not loaded from the descriptor table as
they would be using a legacy x86 RET instruction. Instead, the hidden portions are forced by the
processor to the following values:
•
The CS base value is forced to 0.
•
The CS limit value is forced to 4 Gbytes.
SYSRET
Fast System Return
[AMD Public Use]
