System Instruction Reference
487
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Transfers control to a fixed entry point in an operating system. It is designed for use by system and
application software implementing a flat-segment memory model. This instruction is valid only in
legacy mode.
Three model-specific registers (MSRs) are used to specify the target address and stack pointers for the
SYSENTER instruction, as well as the CS and SS selectors of the called and returned procedures: 
•
MSR_SYSENTER_CS: Contains the CS selector of the called procedure. The SS selector is set to
MSR_SYSENTER_CS + 8.
•
MSR_SYSENTER_ESP: Contains the called procedure’s stack pointer. 
•
MSR_SYSENTER_EIP: Contains the offset into the CS of the called procedure.
The hidden portions of the CS and SS segment registers are not loaded from the descriptor table as
they would be using a legacy x86 CALL instruction. Instead, the hidden portions are forced by the
processor to the following values:
•
The CS and SS base values are forced to 0.
•
The CS and SS limit values are forced to 4 Gbytes.
•
The CS segment attributes are set to execute/read 32-bit code with a CPL of zero.
•
The SS segment attributes are set to read/write and expand-up with a 32-bit stack referenced by
ESP.
System software must create corresponding descriptor-table entries referenced by the new CS and SS
selectors that match the values described above.
The return EIP and application stack are not saved by this instruction. System software must explicitly
save that information.
An invalid-opcode exception occurs if this instruction is used in long mode. Software should use the
SYSCALL (and SYSRET) instructions in long mode. If SYSENTER is used in real mode, a #GP is
raised.
For additional information on this instruction, see “SYSENTER and SYSEXIT (Legacy Mode Only)”
in APM Volume 2.
Support for the SYSENTER instruction is indicated by CPUID Fn0000_0001_EDX[SysEnterSysExit]
= 1. For more information on using the CPUID instruction, see the description of the CPUID
instruction on page 171.
Instruction Encoding
SYSENTER
System Call
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
SYSENTER
0F 34
Call operating system.
[AMD Public Use]
