150
General-Purpose
Instruction Reference
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
Flushes the cache line specified by the mem8 linear-address. The instruction checks all levels of the
cache hierarchy—internal caches and external caches—and invalidates the cache line in every cache
in which it is found. If a cache contains a dirty copy of the cache line (that is, the cache line is in the
modified or owned MOESI state), the line is written back to memory before it is invalidated. The
instruction sets the cache-line MOESI state to invalid.
The instruction also checks the physical address corresponding to the linear-address operand against
the processor’s write-combining buffers. If the write-combining buffer holds data intended for that
physical address, the instruction writes the entire contents of the buffer to memory. This occurs even
though the data is not cached in the cache hierarchy. In a multiprocessor system, the instruction checks
the write-combining buffers only on the processor that executed the CLFLUSH instruction.
On processors that do not support the CLFLUSHOPT instruction, (CPUID Fn
0000_0007_EBX_x0[CLFLOPT]=0), the CLFLUSH instruction is weakly ordered with respect to
other instructions that operate on memory. Speculative loads initiated by the processor, or specified
explicitly using cache-prefetch instructions, can be reordered around a CLFLUSH instruction. Such
reordering can invalidate a speculatively prefetched cache line, unintentionally defeating the prefetch
operation. The only way to avoid this situation is to use the MFENCE instruction after the CLFLUSH
instruction to force strong-ordering of the CLFLUSH instruction with respect to subsequent memory
operations. The CLFLUSH instruction may also take effect on a cache line while stores from previous
store instructions are still pending in the store buffer. To ensure that such stores are included in the
cache line that is flushed, use an MFENCE instruction ahead of the CLFLUSH instruction. Such stores
would otherwise cause the line to be re-cached and modified after the CLFLUSH completed. The
LFENCE, SFENCE, and serializing instructions are not ordered with respect to CLFLUSH.
On processors that support CLFLUSHOPT, (CPUID Fn 0000_0007_EBX_x0[CLFLOPT]=1),
CLFLUSH is ordered with respect to locked operations, fence instructions, and CLFLUSHOPT,
CLFLUSH and write instructions that touch the same cache line. CLFLUSH is not ordered with
CLFLUSHOPT, CLFLUSH and write instructions to other cache lines.
The CLFLUSH instruction behaves like a load instruction with respect to setting the page-table
accessed and dirty bits. That is, it sets the page-table accessed bit to 1, but does not set the page-table
dirty bit.
The CLFLUSH instruction executes at any privilege level. CLFLUSH performs all the segmentation
and paging checks that a 1-byte read would perform, except that it also allows references to execute-
only segments.
The CLFLUSH instruction is supported if the feature flag CPUID Fn0000_0001_EDX[CLFSH] is set.
The 8-bit field CPUID Fn 0000_0001_EBX[CLFlush] returns the size of the cacheline in quadwords.
For more information on using the CPUID instruction, see the instruction reference page for the
CPUID instruction on page 171. For a description of all feature flags related to instruction subset
support, see Appendix D, “Instruction Subsets and CPUID Feature Flags,” on page 613.
CLFLUSH
Cache Line Flush
[AMD Public Use]
