General-Purpose
231
Instruction Reference
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Decrements the event counter associated with the programmed value sample event (see “Programmed
Value Sample” in APM Volume 2, Chapter 13). If the resulting counter value is negative, inserts an
event record into the LWP event ring buffer in memory and advances the ring buffer pointer. 
Refer to the description of the programmed value sample record in APM Volume 2, Chapter 13. The
event record has an EventId of 1. The value in the register specified by vvvv (first operand) is stored in
the Data2 field at bytes 23–16 (zero extended if the operand size is 32). The value in a register or
memory location (second operand) is stored in the Data1 field at bytes 7–4. The immediate value (third
operand) is truncated to 16 bits and stored in the Flags field at bytes 3–2. 
If the programmed value sample record is not written to the event ring buffer, the memory location of
the second operand (assuming it is memory-based) is not accessed.
If the ring buffer is not full or if LWP is running in continuous mode, the head pointer is advanced and
the event counter is reset to the interval for the event (subject to randomization). If the ring buffer
threshold is exceeded and threshold interrupts are enabled, an interrupt is signaled. If LWP is in
Continuous Mode and the new head pointer equals the tail pointer, the MissedEvents counter is
incremented to indicate that the buffer wrapped.
If the ring buffer is full and LWP is running in Synchronized Mode, the event record overwrites the last
record in the buffer, the MissedEvents counter in the LWPCB is incremented, and the head pointer is
not advanced.
LWPVAL generates an invalid opcode exception (#UD) if the machine is not in protected mode or if
LWP is not available.
LWPVAL does nothing if LWP is not enabled or if the Programmed Value Sample event is not enabled
in LWPCB.Flags. This allows LWPVAL instructions to be harmlessly ignored if profiling is turned off.
It is possible to execute LWPVAL when the CPL != 3 or when SMM is active, but the system software
must ensure that the memory operand (if present), the LWPCB, and the entire ring buffer are properly
mapped into writable memory in order to avoid a #PF or #GP fault. Using LWPVAL in these situations
is not recommended.
LWPVAL can be used by a program to perform value profiling. This is the technique of sampling the
value of some program variable at a predetermined frequency. For example, a managed runtime might
use LWPVAL to sample the value of the divisor for a frequently executed divide instruction in order to
determine whether to generate specialized code for a common division. It might sample the target
location of an indirect branch or call to see if one destination is more frequent than others. Since
LWPVAL does not modify any registers or condition codes, it can be inserted harmlessly between any
instructions.
LWPVAL
Lightweight Profiling Insert Value
[AMD Public Use]
