System Instruction Reference
509
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
WBINVD writes all modified lines in all levels of cache associated with this processor to main
memory and invalidates the caches. This may or may not include lower level caches associated with
another processor that shares any level of this processor’s cache hierarchy. WBNOINVD does not
invalidate the caches, instead leaving all (or most) cache lines in the cache hierarchy in non-modified
state, but in all other respects it behaves the same as WBINVD. 
CPUID Fn8000_001D_EDX[WBINVD]_xN indicates the behavior of the operation at various levels
of the cache hierarchy, for both WBINVD and WBNOINVD, with respect to lower branches in the
cache hierarchy. If the feature bit is 0, the instruction causes the write back and (for WBINVD)
invalidation of all lower level caches of other processors sharing the designated level of cache. If the
feature bit is 1, the instruction does not necessarily cause the write back and invalidation of all lower
level caches of other processors sharing the designated level of cache. See Appendix E, “Obtaining
Processor Information Via the CPUID Instruction,” on page 621 for more information on using the
CPUID function.
The INVD instruction can be used when cache coherence with memory is not important.
These instructions do not invalidate TLB caches.
These are privileged instructions. The current privilege level of a procedure invalidating the
processor’s internal caches must be zero.
WBINVD and WBNOINVD are serializing instructions
Support for WBNOINVD is indicated by CPUID Fn8000_0008_EBX[WBNOINVD] = 1. However,
the encoding of WBNOINVD results in it being interpreted as WBINVD on processors that do not
explicitly support WBNOINVD, including legacy processors. For more information on using the
CPUID instruction, see the description of the CPUID instruction on page 171.
On some processor implementations, WBINVD and WBNOINVD can be made interruptible by
setting EFER.INTWB to 1. When this bit is set, the processor periodically checks pending interrupts
while flushing the caches. If an interrupt is pending, the processor stops flushing the caches, saves the
instruction pointer and transfers control to the interrupt handler. Upon returning from the interrupt
handler, the processor restarts the flush process from the beginning as lines may have been modified
and cached while executing the interrupt handler. Interruptible WBINVD and WBNOINVD support is
indicated by CPUID Fn8000_0008_EBX[INT_WBINVD] (bit 13) = 1.
WBINVD
Writeback and Invalidate Caches
WBNOINVD
Writeback With No Invalidate
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
WBINVD
0F 09
Write modified cache lines to main memory, invalidate 
internal caches, and trigger external cache flushes.
WBNOINVD 
 F3 0F 09 
Write modified cache lines to main memory and trigger 
external cache flushes.
[AMD Public Use]
