338
General-Purpose
Instruction Reference
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
Acts as a barrier to force strong memory ordering (serialization) between store instructions preceding
the SFENCE and store instructions that follow the SFENCE. Stores to differing memory types, or
within the WC memory type, may become visible out of program order; the SFENCE instruction
ensures that the system completes all previous stores in such a way that they are globally visible before
executing subsequent stores. This includes emptying the store buffer and all write-combining buffers.
The SFENCE instruction is weakly-ordered with respect to load instructions, data and instruction
prefetches, and the LFENCE instruction. Speculative loads initiated by the processor, or specified
explicitly using cache-prefetch instructions, can be reordered around an SFENCE. 
In addition to store instructions, SFENCE is strongly ordered with respect to other SFENCE
instructions, MFENCE instructions, and serializing instructions. Further details on the use of
MFENCE to order accesses among differing memory types may be found in APM Volume 2, section 
7.4 “Memory Types” on page 12.
The SFENCE instruction is an SSE1 instruction. Support for SSE1 instructions is indicated by CPUID
Fn0000_0001_EDX[SSE] = 1.
For more information on using the CPUID instruction, see the instruction reference page for the
CPUID instruction on page 171. For a description of all feature flags related to instruction subset
support, see Appendix D, “Instruction Subsets and CPUID Feature Flags,” on page 613.
Related Instructions
LFENCE, MFENCE, MCOMMIT
rFLAGS Affected
None
Exceptions
SFENCE
Store Fence
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
SFENCE 
0F AE F8
Force strong ordering of (serialized) store operations. 
Exception
Real
Virtual
8086 Protected
Cause of Exception
Invalid Opcode, 
#UD 
X
X
X
The SSE instructions are not supported, as indicated by 
CPUID Fn0000_0001_EDX[25]=0; and the AMD extensions to 
MMX are not supported, as indicated by CPUID 
Fn8000_0001_EDX[22]=0.
[AMD Public Use]
