334
General-Purpose
Instruction Reference
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
Compares the AL, AX, EAX, or RAX register with the byte, word, doubleword, or quadword pointed
to by ES:rDI, sets the status flags in the rFLAGS register according to the results, and then increments
or decrements the rDI register according to the state of the DF flag in the rFLAGS register.
If the DF flag is 0, the instruction increments the rDI register; otherwise, it decrements it. The
instruction increments or decrements the rDI register by 1, 2, 4, or 8, depending on the size of the
operands.
The forms of the SCASx instruction with an explicit operand address the operand at ES:rDI. The
explicit operand serves only to specify the size of the values being compared.
The no-operands forms of the instruction use the ES:rDI registers to point to the value to be compared.
The mnemonic determines the size of the operands and the specific register containing the other
comparison value.
For block comparisons, the SCASx instructions support the REPE or REPZ prefixes (they are
synonyms) and the REPNE or REPNZ prefixes (they are synonyms). For details about the REP
prefixes, see “Repeat Prefixes” on page 12. A SCASx instruction can also operate inside a loop
controlled by the LOOPcc instruction.
SCAS
SCASB
SCASW
SCASD
SCASQ
Scan String
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
SCAS mem8
AE
Compare the contents of the AL register with the byte at 
ES:rDI, and then increment or decrement rDI.
SCAS mem16
AF
Compare the contents of the AX register with the word 
at ES:rDI, and then increment or decrement rDI.
SCAS mem32
AF
Compare the contents of the EAX register with the 
doubleword at ES:rDI, and then increment or decrement 
rDI.
SCAS mem64
AF
Compare the contents of the RAX register with the 
quadword at ES:rDI, and then increment or decrement 
rDI.
SCASB
AE
Compare the contents of the AL register with the byte at 
ES:rDI, and then increment or decrement rDI.
SCASW
AF
Compare the contents of the AX register with the word 
at ES:rDI, and then increment or decrement rDI.
[AMD Public Use]
