Opcode and Operand Encodings
521
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
S
Segment register specified by the ModRM.reg field.
U
ZMM/YMM/XMM register specified by the ModRM.r/m field. The ModRM.mod field must be 
11b.
V
ZMM/YMM/XMM register specified by the ModRM.reg field.
W
ZMM/YMM/XMM register or memory operand specified by the {mod, r/m} field of the 
ModRM byte. For memory operands, the ModRM byte may be followed by a SIB byte to specify 
one of the indexed register-indirect addressing forms.
X
A memory operand addressed by the DS.rSI registers. Used in string instructions. 
Y
A memory operand addressed by the ES.rDI registers. Used in string instructions.
The following list provides the key for the second part of the operand notation:
a
Two 16-bit or 32-bit memory operands, depending on the effective operand size. Used in the 
BOUND instruction.
b
A byte, irrespective of the effective operand size.
c
A byte or a word, depending on the effective operand size.
d
A doubleword (32 bits), irrespective of the effective operand size.
do
A double octword (256 bits), irrespective of the effective operand size.
i
A 16-bit integer.
j
A 32-bit integer.
m
A bit mask of size equal to the source operand.
mn
Where n = 2,4,8, or 16. A bit mask of size n.
o
An octword (128 bits), irrespective of the effective operand size.
o.q
Operand is either the upper or lower half of a 128-bit value.
p
A 32- or 48-bit far pointer, depending on 16- or 32-bit effective operand size.
pb
Vector with byte-wide (8-bit) elements (packed byte).
pd
A double-precision (64-bit) floating-point vector operand (packed double-precision).
pdw Vector composed of 32-bit doublewords.
ph
A half-precision (16-bit) floating-point vector operand (packed half-precision)
pi
Vector composed of 16-bit integers (packed integer).
pj
Vector composed of 32-bit integers (packed double integer).
pk
Vector composed of 8-bit integers (packed half-word integer).
pq
Vector composed of 64-bit integers (packed quadword integer).
pqw Vector composed of 64-bit quadwords (packed quadword).
[AMD Public Use]
