General-Purpose
139
Instruction Reference
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Pushes procedure linking information onto the stack and branches to the target address, which contains
the first instruction of the called procedure. The operand specifies a target selector and offset.
The instruction can specify the target directly, by including the far pointer in the immediate and
displacement fields of the instruction, or indirectly, by referencing a far pointer in memory. In 64-bit
mode, only indirect far calls are allowed; executing a direct far call (opcode 9A) generates an
undefined opcode exception. For both direct and indirect far calls, if the CALL (Far) operand-size is
16 bits, the instruction's operand is a 16-bit offset followed by a 16-bit selector. If the operand-size is
32 or 64 bits, the operand is a 32-bit offset followed by a 16-bit selector.
The target selector used by the instruction can be a code selector in all modes. Additionally, the target
selector can reference a call gate in protected mode, or a task gate or TSS selector in legacy protected
mode.
•
Target is a code selector—The CS:rIP of the next instruction is pushed to the stack, using operand-
size stack pushes. Then code is executed from the target CS:rIP. In this case, the target offset can
only be a 16- or 32-bit value, depending on operand-size, and is zero-extended to 64 bits. No CPL
change is allowed.
•
Target is a call gate—The call gate specifies the actual target code segment and offset. Call gates
allow calls to the same or more privileged code. If the target segment is at the same CPL as the
current code segment, the CS:rIP of the next instruction is pushed to the stack.
If the CALL (Far) changes privilege level, then a stack-switch occurs, using an inner-level stack
pointer from the TSS. The CS:rIP of the next instruction is pushed to the new stack. If the mode is
legacy mode and the param-count field in the call gate is non-zero, then up to 31 operands are
copied from the caller's stack to the new stack. Finally, the caller's SS:rSP is pushed to the new
stack.
When calling through a call gate, the stack pushes are 16-, 32-, or 64-bits, depending on the size of
the call gate. The size of the target rIP is also 16, 32, or 64 bits, depending on the size of the call
gate. If the target rIP is less than 64 bits, it is zero-extended to 64 bits. Long mode only allows 64-
bit call gates that must point to 64-bit code segments.
•
Target is a task gate or a TSS—If the mode is legacy protected mode, then a task switch occurs.
See “Hardware Task-Management in Legacy Mode” in APM Volume 2 for details about task
switches. Hardware task switches are not supported in long mode.
See CALL (Near) for information on near calls—calls to procedures located inside the current code
segment. For details about control-flow instructions, see “Control Transfers” in APM Volume 1, and
“Control-Transfer Privilege Checks” in APM Volume 2. 
CALL (Far)
Far Procedure Call
[AMD Public Use]
