General-Purpose
229
Instruction Reference
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Inserts programmed event record into the LWP event ring buffer in memory and advances the ring
buffer pointer.
Refer to the description of the programmed event record in APM Volume 2, Chapter 13. The record
has an EventId of 255. The value in the register specified by vvvv (first operand) is stored in the Data2
field at bytes 23–16 (zero extended if the operand size is 32). The value in a register or memory
location (second operand) is stored in the Data1 field at bytes 7–4. The immediate value (third
operand) is truncated to 16 bits and stored in the Flags field at bytes 3–2.
If the ring buffer is not full, or if LWP is running in Continuous Mode, the head pointer is advanced
and the CF flag is cleared. If the ring buffer threshold is exceeded and threshold interrupts are enabled,
an interrupt is signaled. If LWP is in Continuous Mode and the new head pointer equals the tail pointer,
the MissedEvents counter is incremented to indicate that the buffer wrapped.
If the ring buffer is full and LWP is running in Synchronized Mode, the event record overwrites the last
record in the buffer, the MissedEvents counter in the LWPCB is incremented, the head pointer is not
advanced, and the CF flag is set.
LWPINS generates an invalid opcode exception (#UD) if the machine is not in protected mode or if
LWP is not available.
LWPINS simply clears CF if LWP is not enabled. This allows LWPINS instructions to be harmlessly
ignored if profiling is turned off.
It is possible to execute LWPINS when the CPL ≠3 or when SMM is active, but the system software
must ensure that the memory operand (if present), the LWPCB, and the entire ring buffer are properly
mapped into writable memory in order to avoid a #PF or #GP fault. Using LWPINS in these situations
is not recommended.
LWPINS can be used by a program to mark significant events in the ring buffer as they occur. For
instance, a program might capture information on changes in the process’ address space such as library
loads and unloads, or changes in the execution environment such as a change in the state of a user-
mode thread of control.
Note that when the LWPINS instruction finishes writing a event record in the event ring buffer, it
counts as an instruction retired. If the Instructions Retired event is active, this might cause that counter
to become negative and immediately store another event record with the same instruction address (but
different EventId values).
LWPINS is an LWP instruction. Support for LWP instructions is indicated by CPUID
Fn8000_0001_ECX[LWP] = 1.
For more information on using the CPUID instruction, see the instruction reference page for the
CPUID instruction on page 171. For a description of all feature flags related to instruction subset
support, see Appendix D, “Instruction Subsets and CPUID Feature Flags,” on page 613.
LWPINS
Lightweight Profiling Insert Record
[AMD Public Use]
