General-Purpose
165
Instruction Reference
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Compares the bytes, words, doublewords, or quadwords pointed to by the rSI and rDI registers, sets or
clears the status flags of the rFLAGS register to reflect the results, and then increments or decrements
the rSI and rDI registers according to the state of the DF flag in the rFLAGS register. To perform the
comparison, the instruction subtracts the second operand from the first operand and sets the status
flags in the same manner as the SUB instruction, but does not alter the first operand. The two operands
must be the same size.
If the DF flag is 0, the instruction increments rSI and rDI; otherwise, it decrements the pointers. It
increments or decrements the pointers by 1, 2, 4, or 8, depending on the size of the operands.
The forms of the CMPSx instruction with explicit operands address the first operand at seg:[rSI]. The
value of seg defaults to the DS segment, but may be overridden by a segment prefix. These instructions
always address the second operand at ES:[rDI]. ES may not be overridden. The explicit operands serve
only to specify the type (size) of the values being compared and the segment used by the first operand.
The no-operands forms of the instruction use the DS:[rSI] and ES:[rDI] registers to point to the values
to be compared. The mnemonic determines the size of the operands.
Do not confuse this CMPSD instruction with the same-mnemonic CMPSD (compare scalar double-
precision floating-point) instruction in the 128-bit media instruction set. Assemblers can distinguish
the instructions by the number and type of operands.
For block comparisons, the CMPS instruction supports the REPE or REPZ prefixes (they are
synonyms) and the REPNE or REPNZ prefixes (they are synonyms). For details about the REP
prefixes, see “Repeat Prefixes” on page 12. If a conditional jump instruction like JL follows a CMPSx
instruction, the jump occurs if the value of the seg:[rSI] operand is less than the ES:[rDI] operand. This
action allows lexicographical comparisons of string or array elements. A CMPSx instruction can also
operate inside a loop controlled by the LOOPcc instruction. 
CMPS
CMPSB
CMPSW
CMPSD
CMPSQ
Compare Strings
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
CMPS mem8, mem8
A6
Compare the byte at DS:rSI with the byte at ES:rDI and 
then increment or decrement rSI and rDI.
CMPS mem16, mem16
A7
Compare the word at DS:rSI with the word at ES:rDI and 
then increment or decrement rSI and rDI.
CMPS mem32, mem32
A7
Compare the doubleword at DS:rSI with the doubleword 
at ES:rDI and then increment or decrement rSI and rDI.
CMPS mem64, mem64
A7
Compare the quadword at DS:rSI with the quadword at 
ES:rDI and then increment or decrement rSI and rDI.
[AMD Public Use]
