General-Purpose
293
Instruction Reference
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Loads the entire 64-byte aligned memory sequence containing the specified memory address into the
L1 data cache. The position of the specified memory address within the 64-byte cache line is
irrelevant. If a cache hit occurs, or if a memory fault is detected, no bus cycle is initiated and the
instruction is treated as a NOP. 
The PREFETCHW instruction loads the prefetched line and sets the cache-line state to Modified, in
anticipation of subsequent data writes to the line. The PREFETCH instruction, by contrast, typically
sets the cache-line state to Exclusive (depending on the hardware implementation). 
The opcodes for the PREFETCH/PREFETCHW instructions include the ModRM byte; however, only
the memory form of ModRM is valid. The register form of ModRM causes an invalid-opcode
exception. Because there is no destination register, the three destination register field bits of the
ModRM byte define the type of prefetch to be performed. The bit patterns 000b and 001b define the
PREFETCH and PREFETCHW instructions, respectively. All other bit patterns are reserved for future
use. 
The reserved PREFETCH types do not result in an invalid-opcode exception if executed. Instead, for
forward compatibility with future processors that may implement additional forms of the PREFETCH
instruction, all reserved PREFETCH types are implemented as synonyms of the basic PREFETCH
type (the PREFETCH instruction with type 000b).
The operation of these instructions is implementation-dependent. The processor implementation can
ignore or change these instructions. The size of the cache line also depends on the implementation,
with a minimum size of 32 bytes. For details on the use of this instruction, see the processor data sheets
or other software-optimization documentation relating to particular hardware implementations.
When paging is enabled and PREFETCHW performs a prefetch from a writable page, it may set the
PTE Dirty bit to 1.
Support for the PREFETCH and PREFETCHW instructions is indicated by CPUID
Fn8000_0001_ECX[3DNowPrefetch] 
OR 
Fn8000_0001_EDX[LM] 
OR
Fn8000_0001_EDX[3DNow] = 1.
For more information on using the CPUID instruction, see the instruction reference page for the
CPUID instruction on page 171. For a description of all feature flags related to instruction subset
support, see Appendix D, “Instruction Subsets and CPUID Feature Flags,” on page 613.
PREFETCH
PREFETCHW
 Prefetch L1 Data-Cache Line
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
PREFETCH mem8
0F 0D /0
Prefetch processor cache line into L1 data cache.
PREFETCHW mem8
0F 0D /1
Prefetch processor cache line into L1 data cache and 
mark it modified.
[AMD Public Use]
