General-Purpose
259
Instruction Reference
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Moves a byte, word, doubleword, or quadword from the memory location pointed to by DS:rSI to the
memory location pointed to by ES:rDI, and then increments or decrements the rSI and rDI registers
according to the state of the DF flag in the rFLAGS register.
If the DF flag is 0, the instruction increments both pointers; otherwise, it decrements them. It
increments or decrements the pointers by 1, 2, 4, or 8, depending on the size of the operands. 
The forms of the MOVSx instruction with explicit operands address the first operand at seg:[rSI]. The
value of seg defaults to the DS segment, but can be overridden by a segment prefix. These instructions
always address the second operand at ES:[rDI] (ES may not be overridden). The explicit operands
serve only to specify the type (size) of the value being moved.
The no-operands forms of the instruction use the DS:[rSI] and ES:[rDI] registers to point to the value
to be moved (they do not allow a segment prefix). The mnemonic determines the size of the operands.
Do not confuse this MOVSD instruction with the same-mnemonic MOVSD (move scalar double-
precision floating-point) instruction in the 128-bit media instruction set. Assemblers can distinguish
the instructions by the number and type of operands. 
The MOVSx instructions support the REP prefixes. For details about the REP prefixes, see “Repeat
Prefixes” on page 12.
MOVS
MOVSB
MOVSW
MOVSD
MOVSQ
Move String
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
MOVS mem8, mem8
A4
Move byte at DS:rSI to ES:rDI, and then increment or 
decrement rSI and rDI.
MOVS mem16, mem16
A5
Move word at DS:rSI to ES:rDI, and then increment or 
decrement rSI and rDI.
MOVS mem32, mem32
A5
Move doubleword at DS:rSI to ES:rDI, and then 
increment or decrement rSI and rDI.
MOVS mem64, mem64
A5
Move quadword at DS:rSI to ES:rDI, and then increment 
or decrement rSI and rDI.
MOVSB
A4
Move byte at DS:rSI to ES:rDI, and then increment or 
decrement rSI and rDI.
MOVSW
A5
Move word at DS:rSI to ES:rDI, and then increment or 
decrement rSI and rDI.
[AMD Public Use]
