Instruction Overview
39
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
2
Instruction Overview
2.1
Instruction Groups
For easier reference, the instruction descriptions are divided into five groups based on usage. The
following sections describe the function, mnemonic syntax, opcodes, affected flags, and possible
exceptions generated by all instructions in the AMD64 architecture:
•
Chapter 3, “General-Purpose Instruction Reference”—The general-purpose instructions are used
in basic software execution. Most of these load, store, or operate on data in the general-purpose
registers (GPRs), in memory, or in both. Other instructions are used to alter sequential program
flow by branching to other locations within the program or to entirely different programs. 
•
Chapter 4, “System Instruction Reference”—The system instructions establish the processor
operating mode, access processor resources, handle program and system errors, and manage
memory. 
•
“Instruction Reference” in APM Volume 4—The Streaming SIMD Extensions (SSE) instructions
load, store, or operate on data located in the ZMM/YMM/XMM registers. These instructions
define both vector and scalar operations on floating-point and integer data types. They include the
SSE, AVX and AVX512 instructions that operate on the ZMM/YMM/XMM registers. Some of
these instructions convert source operands in YMM/XMM registers to destination operands in
GPR, MMX, or x87 registers or otherwise affect ZMM/YMM/XMM state.
•
“64-Bit Media Instruction Reference” in APM Volume 5—The 64-bit media instructions load,
store, or operate on data located in the 64-bit MMX registers. These instructions define both vector
and scalar operations on integer and floating-point data types. They include the legacy MMXTM
instructions, the 3DNow!TM instructions, and the AMD extensions to the MMX and 3DNow!
instruction sets. Some of these instructions convert source operands in MMX registers to
destination operands in GPR, YMM/XMM, or x87 registers or otherwise affect MMX state.
•
“x87 Floating-Point Instruction Reference” in APM Volume 5—The x87 instructions are used in
legacy floating-point applications. Most of these instructions load, store, or operate on data located
in the x87 ST(0)–ST(7) stack registers (the FPR0–FPR7 physical registers). The remaining
instructions within this category are used to manage the x87 floating-point environment.
The description of each instruction covers its behavior in all operating modes, including legacy mode
(real, virtual-8086, and protected modes) and long mode (compatibility and 64-bit modes). Details of
certain kinds of complex behavior—such as control-flow changes in CALL, INT, or FXSAVE
instructions—have cross-references in the instruction-detail pages to detailed descriptions in APM
Volumes 1 and 2.
Two instructions—CMPSD and MOVSD—use the same mnemonic for different instructions.
Assemblers can distinguish them on the basis of the number and type of operands with which they are
used. 
[AMD Public Use]
