Instruction Encoding
17
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
on page 19) are used as well in the encoding of certain instructions. This is represented in the opcode
maps via instruction group tables that detail the modifications represented via the extra encoding bits.
See Section A.1, “Opcode Maps” of Appendix A for examples.
Even though each instruction has a unique opcode map and opcode, assemblers often support multiple
alternate mnemonics for the same instruction to improve the readability of assembly language code.
The 64-bit floating-point 3DNow! instructions utilize the two-byte escape sequence 0Fh, 0Fh to select
the 3DNow! opcode map. For these instructions the opcode is encoded in the immediate field at the
end of the instruction encoding.
For details on how the opcode byte encodes the basic operation for specif instructions, see Section A.1,
“Opcode Maps” of Appendix A
1.4
ModRM and SIB Bytes
The ModRM byte is optional depending on the instruction. When present, it follows the opcode and is
used to specify:
•
two register-based operands, or
•
one register-based operand and a second memory-based operand and an addressing mode.
In the encoding of some instructions, fields within the ModRM byte are repurposed to provide
additional opcode bits used to define the instruction’s function. 
The ModRM byte is partitioned into three fields—mod, reg, and r/m. Normally the reg field specifies a
register-based operand and the mod and r/m fields used together specify a second operand that is either
register-based or memory-based. The addressing mode is also specified when the operand is memory-
based.
In 64-bit mode, the REX.R and REX.B bits augment the reg and r/m fields respectively allowing the
specification of twice the number of registers.
1.4.1    ModRM Byte Format
Figure 1-4 below shows the format of a ModRM byte. 
Figure 1-4.
ModRM-Byte Format
mod
REX.R, VEX.R or XOP.R
extend this field to 4 bits
REX.B, VEX.B, or XOP.B
extend this field to 4 bits
reg
r/m
ModRM
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
[AMD Public Use]
