192
General-Purpose
Instruction Reference
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
Transfers data from the I/O port specified in the DX register to an input buffer specified in the rDI
register and increments or decrements the rDI register according to the setting of the DF flag in the
rFLAGS register.
If the DF flag is 0, the instruction increments rDI by 1, 2, or 4, depending on the number of bytes read.
If the DF flag is 1, it decrements the pointer by 1, 2, or 4.
In 16-bit and 32-bit mode, the INS instruction always uses ES as the data segment. The ES segment
cannot be overridden with a segment override prefix. In 64-bit mode, INS always uses the
unsegmented memory space.
The INS instructions use the explicit memory operand (first operand) to determine the size of the I/O
port, but always use ES:[rDI] for the location of the input buffer. The explicit register operand (second
operand) specifies the I/O port address and must always be DX. 
The INSB, INSW, and INSD instructions copy byte, word, and doubleword data, respectively, from
the I/O port (0000h to FFFFh) specified in the DX register to the input buffer specified in the ES:rDI
registers.
If the operand size is 64-bits, the instruction behaves as if the operand size were 32-bits.
If the CPL is higher than the IOPL or the mode is virtual mode, INSx checks the I/O permission bitmap
in the TSS before allowing access to the I/O port. (See APM Volume 2 for details on the TSS I/O
permission bitmap.)
The INSx instructions support the REP prefix for block input of rCX bytes, words, or doublewords.
For details about the REP prefix, see “Repeat Prefixes” on page 12. 
INS
INSB
INSW
INSD
Input String
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
INS mem8, DX
6C
Input a byte from the port specified by DX, put it into the 
memory location specified in ES:rDI, and then 
increment or decrement rDI.
INS mem16, DX
6D
Input a word from the port specified by DX register, put it 
into the memory location specified in ES:rDI, and then 
increment or decrement rDI.
INS mem32, DX
6D
Input a doubleword from the port specified by DX, put it 
into the memory location specified in ES:rDI, and then 
increment or decrement rDI.
INSB
6C
Input a byte from the port specified by DX, put it into the 
memory location specified in ES:rDI, and then 
increment or decrement rDI.
[AMD Public Use]
