Opcode and Operand Encodings
519
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Appendix A Opcode and Operand Encodings
This appendix specifies the opcode and operand encodings for each instruction in the AMD64 
instruction set. As discussed in Chapter 1, “Instruction Encoding,” the basic operation and implied 
operand type(s) of an instruction are encoded by the binary value of the opcode byte. The 
correspondence between an opcode binary value and its meaning is provided by the opcode map. 
Each opcode map has 256 entries and can encode up to 256 different operations. Since the AMD64 
instruction set comprises more than 256 instructions, multiple opcode maps are utilized to encode the 
instruction set. A particular opcode map is selected using the instruction encoding syntax diagrammed 
in Figure 1-1 on page 2. For each opcode map, values may be reserved or utilized for purposes other 
than encoding an instruction operation. 
To preserve compatibility with future instruction architectural extensions, reserved opcodes should not 
be used. If a means to reliably cause an invalid-opcode exception (#UD) is required, software should 
use one of the UDx opcodes. These opcodes are set aside for this purpose and will not be used for 
future instructions. The UD opcodes are located on the secondary opcode map at code points B9h, 
0Bh, and FFh. 
The following section provides a key to the notation used in the opcode maps to specify the implied 
operand types.
Opcode-Syntax Notation
In the opcode maps which follow, each table entry represents a specific form of an instruction, 
identifying the instruction by its mnemonic and listing the operand or operands peculiar to that 
opcode. If a register-based operand is specified by the opcode itself, the operand is represented directly 
using the register mnemonic as defined in “Summary of Registers and Data Types” on page 42. If the 
operand is encoded in one or more bytes following the opcode byte, the following special notation is 
used to represent the operand and its encoding in more generic terms.
This special notation, used exclusively in the opcode maps, is composed of three parts:
•
an initial capital letter that represents the operand source / destination (register-based, memory-
based, or immediate) and how it is encoded in the instruction (either as an immediate, or via the
ModRM.reg, ModRM.{mod,r/m}, or EVEX/XOP.vvvv fields). For register-based operands, the
initial letter also specifies the register type (General-purpose, MMX, ZMM/YMM/XMM, debug,
or control register).
•
one, two, or three letter modifier (in lowercase) that represents the data type (for example, byte,
word, quadword, packed single-precision floating-point vector).
•
x, which indicates for an SSE instruction that the instruction supports both vector sizes (128 bits
and 256 bits). The specific vector size is encoded in the VEX/XOP.L field. L=0 indicates 128 bits
and L=1 indicates 256 bits.
[AMD Public Use]
