210
General-Purpose
Instruction Reference
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
Unconditionally transfers control to a new address without saving the current CS:rIP values. This form
of the instruction jumps to an address outside the current code segment and is called a far jump. The
operand specifies a target selector and offset.
The target operand can be specified by the instruction directly, by containing the far pointer in the jmp
far opcode itself, or indirectly, by referencing a far pointer in memory. In 64-bit mode, only indirect far
jumps are allowed, executing a direct far jmp (opcode EA) will generate an undefined opcode
exception. For both direct and indirect far jumps, if the JMP (Far) operand-size is 16 bits, the
instruction's operand is a 16-bit selector followed by a 16-bit offset. If the operand-size is 32 or 64 bits,
the operand is a 16-bit selector followed by a 32-bit offset.
In all modes, the target selector used by the instruction can be a code selector. Additionally, the target
selector can also be a call gate in protected mode, or a task gate or TSS selector in legacy protected
mode.
•
Target is a code segment—Control is transferred to the target CS:rIP. In this case, the target offset
can only be a 16 or 32 bit value, depending on operand-size, and is zero-extended to 64 bits; 64-bit
offsets are only available via call gates. No CPL change is allowed.
•
Target is a call gate—The call gate specifies the actual target code segment and offset, and control
is transferred to the target CS:rIP. When jumping through a call gate, the size of the target rIP is 16,
32, or 64 bits, depending on the size of the call gate. If the target rIP is less than 64 bits, it's zero-
extended to 64 bits. In long mode, only 64-bit call gates are allowed, and they must point to 64-bit
code segments. No CPL change is allowed.
•
Target is a task gate or a TSS—If the mode is legacy protected mode, then a task switch occurs. See
“Hardware Task-Management in Legacy Mode” in APM Volume 2 for details about task switches.
Hardware task switches are not supported in long mode.
See JMP (Near) for information on near jumps—jumps to procedures located inside the current code
segment. For details about control-flow instructions, see “Control Transfers” in APM Volume 1, and
“Control-Transfer Privilege Checks” in APM Volume 2.
JMP (Far)
Far Jump
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
JMP FAR pntr16:16
EA cd
Far jump direct, with the target specified by a far pointer 
contained in the instruction. (Invalid in 64-bit mode.) 
JMP FAR pntr16:32
EA cp
Far jump direct, with the target specified by a far pointer 
contained in the instruction. (Invalid in 64-bit mode.) 
JMP FAR mem16:16
FF /5
Far jump indirect, with the target specified by a far 
pointer in memory (16-bit operand size).
JMP FAR mem16:32
FF /5
Far jump indirect, with the target specified by a far 
pointer in memory (32- and 64-bit operand size).
[AMD Public Use]
