Opcode and Operand Encodings
571
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
A.2
Operand Encodings
An operand is data that affects or is affected by the execution of an instruction. Operands may be 
located in registers, memory, or I/O ports. For some instructions, the location of one or more operands 
is implicitly specified based on the opcode alone. However, for most instructions, operands are 
specified using bytes that immediately follow the opcode byte. These bytes are designated the mode-
register-memory (ModRM) byte, the scale-index-base (SIB) byte, the displacement byte(s), and the 
immediate byte(s). The presence of the SIB, displacement, and immediate bytes are optional 
depending on the instruction, and, for instructions that reference memory, the memory addressing 
mode. 
The following sections describe the encoding of the ModRM and SIB bytes in various processor 
modes.
A.2.1 ModRM Operand References
Figure A-2 below shows the format of the ModRM byte. There are three fields—mod, reg, and r/m. 
The reg field is normally used to specify a register-based operand. The mod and r/m fields together 
provide a 5-bit field, augmented in 64-bit mode by the R and B bits of a REX, VEX, or XOP prefix, 
normally used to specify the location of a second memory- or register-based operand and, for a 
memory-based operand, the addressing mode. 
As described in “Encoding Extensions Using the ModRM Byte” on page 532, certain instructions use 
either the reg field, the r/m field, or the entire ModRM byte to extend the opcode byte in the encoding 
of the instruction operation.
Figure A-2.
ModRM-Byte Format
The two sections below describe the ModRM operand encodings, first for 16-bit references and then 
for 32-bit and 64-bit references. 
16-Bit Register and Memory References.  Table A-42 shows the notation and encoding
conventions for register references using the ModRM reg field. This table is comparable to Table A-44
on page 574 but applies only when the address-size is 16-bit. Table A-43 on page 572 shows the
mod
REX.R, VEX.R or XOP.R
extend this field to 4 bits
REX.B, VEX.B, or XOP.B
extend this field to 4 bits
reg
r/m
ModRM
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
[AMD Public Use]
