System Instruction Reference
401
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Invalidates the TLB entry or entries on the logical processor for a given PCID in the local TLB based
on the operation type specified in the register operand and the PCID and virtual (linear) address
specified by the descriptor in the memory operand. (See “Process Context Identifier” in Chapter 5 of
APM Volume 2 for more information on PCIDs.)
The register operand is always 64 bits in 64-bit mode and 32 bits outside 64-bit mode regardless of
value of CS.D. 
The operation type is specified in the register operand bits [1:0]. The operation type determines which
components of the address (VA, PCID) are valid for comparison in the TLB and whether to include
global valid bits in the invalidation process.
The operation types are:
The descriptor in the memory operand is formatted as follows: 
This instruction invalidates the TLB entry or entries, regardless of the page size (4 Kbytes, 2 Mbytes, 4
Mbytes, or 1 Gbyte). It may invalidate any number of additional TLB entries, in addition to the
targeted entry or entries to accomplish the specified function. INVPCID follows the same rules for
cached upper TLB entries as INVLPG which is controlled by EFER.TCE. (See Section 3, “Translation
Cache Extension” in APM Volume 2 for more information on EFER.TCE.) 
If PCID is disabled (CR4.PCID = 0), all TLB entries are being cached with PCID = 0. When
CR4.PCID = 0, executing INVPCID with type 0 and 1 is only allowed if the PCID specified in the
descriptor is zero. Furthermore, when CR4.PCID = 0, executing INVPCID with type 2 or 3 invalidate
mappings only for PCID = 0.
INVPCID is a serializing instruction and a privileged instruction. The current privilege level must be 0
to execute this instruction.
INVPCID 
Invalidate TLB Entry(s) in a Specified PCID
reg32/64 [1:0]
Action 
0
Invalidate TLB entries that match {PCID, VA} excluding
Global
1
Invalidate all TLB entries that match {PCID} excluding
Global
2
Invalidate all TLB entries including Global 
3
Invalidate all TLB entries excluding Global 
127:64
63:12
11:0 
VA
Reserved, MBZ
PCID 
[AMD Public Use]
