General-Purpose
171
Instruction Reference
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Provides information about the processor and its capabilities through a number of different functions.
Software should load the number of the CPUID function to execute into the EAX register before
executing the CPUID instruction. The processor returns information in the EAX, EBX, ECX, and
EDX registers; the contents and format of these registers depend on the function.
The architecture supports CPUID information about standard functions and extended functions. The
standard functions have numbers in the 0000_xxxxh series (for example, standard function 1). To
determine the largest standard function number that a processor supports, execute CPUID function 0.
The extended functions have numbers in the 8000_xxxxh series (for example, extended
function 8000_0001h). To determine the largest extended function number that a processor supports,
execute CPUID extended function 8000_0000h. If the value returned in EAX is greater than
8000_0000h, the processor supports extended functions.
When HWCR[CpuidUserDis]=0, software operating at any privilege level can execute the CPUID
instruction to collect this information. When HWCR[CpuidUserDis]=1 and not in SMM, only
privileged software can execute the CPUID instruction. CPUID Fn8000_0021_EAX[CpuidUserDis]
(bit 17) indicates support for CPUID instruction disable for non-privileged software (CPL>0).
In 64-bit mode, this instruction works the same as in legacy mode except that it zero-extends 32-bit
register results to 64 bits. 
CPUID is a serializing instruction.
Testing for the CPUID Instruction
To avoid an invalid-opcode exception (#UD) on those processor implementations that do not support
the CPUID instruction, software must first test to determine if the CPUID instruction is supported.
Support for the CPUID instruction is indicated by the ability to write the ID bit in the rFLAGS register.
Normally, 32-bit software uses the PUSHFD and POPFD instructions in an attempt to write
rFLAGS.ID. After reading the updated rFLAGS.ID bit, a comparison determines if the operation
changed its value. If the value changed, the processor executing the code supports the CPUID
instruction. If the value did not change, rFLAGS.ID is not writable, and the processor does not support
the CPUID instruction.
The following code sample shows how to test for the presence of the CPUID instruction using 32-bit
code.
pushfd
; save EFLAGS
pop
eax
; store EFLAGS in EAX
CPUID
Processor Identification
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
CPUID
0F A2
Returns information about the processor and its 
capabilities. EAX specifies the function number, and the 
data is returned in EAX, EBX, ECX, EDX.
[AMD Public Use]
