222
General-Purpose
Instruction Reference
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
Parses the Lightweight Profiling Control Block at the address contained in the specified register. If the
LWPCB is valid, writes the address into the LWP_CBADDR MSR and enables Lightweight Profiling.
See APM Volume 2, Chapter 13, for an overview of the lightweight profiling facility.
The LWPCB must be in memory that is readable and writable in user mode. For better performance, it
should be aligned on a 64-byte boundary in memory and placed so that it does not cross a page
boundary, though neither of these suggestions is required.
The LWPCB address in the register is truncated to 32 bits if the operand size is 32.
Action
1. If LWP is not available or if the machine is not in protected mode, LLWPCB immediately causes 
a #UD exception.
2. If LWP is already enabled, the processor flushes the LWP state to memory in the old LWPCB. See 
description of the SLWPCB instruction on page 350 for details on saving the active LWP state.
If the flush causes a #PF exception, LWP remains enabled with the old LWPCB still active. Note
that the flush is done before LWP attempts to access the new LWPCB.
3. If the specified LWPCB address is 0, LWP is disabled and the execution of LLWPCB is complete.
4. The LWPCB address is non-zero. LLWPCB validates it as follows:
-
If any part of the LWPCB or the ring buffer is beyond the data segment limit, LLWPCB causes 
a #GP exception.
-
If the ring buffer size is below the implementation’s minimum ring buffer size, LLWPCB 
causes a #GP exception. 
-
While doing these checks, LWP reads and writes the LWPCB, which may cause a #PF 
exception. 
If any of these exceptions occurs, LLWPCB aborts and LWP is left disabled. Usually, the operating 
system will handle a #PF exception by making the memory available and returning to retry the 
LLWPCB instruction. The #GP exceptions indicate application programming errors.
5. LWP converts the LWPCB address and the ring buffer address to linear address form by adding 
the DS base address and stores the addresses internally. 
6. LWP examines the LWPCB.Flags field to determine which events should be enabled and whether 
threshold interrupts should be taken. It clears the bits for any features that are not available and 
stores the result back to LWPCB.Flags to inform the application of the actual LWP state.
7. For each event being enabled, LWP examines the EventIntervaln value and, if necessary, sets it to 
an implementation-defined minimum. (The minimum event interval for LWPVAL is zero.) It 
loads its internal counter for the event from the value in EventCountern. A zero or negative value 
LLWPCB
Load Lightweight Profiling Control Block
Address
[AMD Public Use]
