System Instruction Reference
481
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
Provides a fast method for system software to load a pointer to system data structures. SWAPGS can
be used upon entering system-software routines as a result of a SYSCALL instruction, an interrupt or
an exception. Prior to returning to application software, SWAPGS can be used to restore the
application data pointer that was replaced by the system data-structure pointer.
This instruction can only be executed in 64-bit mode. Executing SWAPGS in any other mode
generates an undefined opcode exception.
The SWAPGS instruction only exchanges the base-address value located in the KernelGSbase model-
specific register (MSR address C000_0102h) with the base-address value located in the hidden-
portion of the GS selector register (GS.base). This allows the system-kernel software to access kernel
data structures by using the GS segment-override prefix during memory references.
The address stored in the KernelGSbase MSR must be in canonical form. The WRMSR instruction
used to load the KernelGSbase MSR causes a general-protection exception if the address loaded is not
in canonical form. The SWAPGS instruction itself does not perform a canonical check.
This instruction is only valid in 64-bit mode at CPL 0. A general protection exception (#GP) is
generated if this instruction is executed at any other privilege level.
For additional information about this instruction, refer to “System Instructions” in APM Volume 2.
Examples
At a kernel entry point, the OS uses SwapGS to obtain a pointer to kernel data structures and
simultaneously save the user's GS base. Upon exit, it uses SwapGS to restore the user's GS base:
SystemCallEntryPoint:
SwapGS                          ; get kernel pointer, save user GSbase
mov gs:[SavedUserRSP], rsp     ; save user's stack pointer
mov rsp, gs:[KernelStackPtr]   ; set up kernel stack
push rax                       ; now save user GPRs on kernel stack
               .               ; perform system service
               .
SwapGS                          ; restore user GS, save kernel pointer
Related Instructions
None
rFLAGS Affected
None
SWAPGS
Swap GS Register with KernelGSbase MSR
Mnemonic
Opcode
Description
SWAPGS
0F 01 F8
Exchange GS base with KernelGSBase MSR.
(Invalid in legacy and compatibility modes.) 
[AMD Public Use]
