xxvi
Preface
AMD64 Technology
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
information on instructions in other subsets, see the tables of contents and indexes of the other APM
volumes.
Conventions and Definitions
The following section Notational Conventions describes notational conventions used in this volume 
and in the remaining APM volumes. This is followed by a Definitions section which lists a number of 
terms used in the manual along with their technical definitions. Finally, the Registers section lists the 
registers which are a part of the application programming model.
Notational Conventions
#GP(0)
An instruction exception—in this example, a general-protection exception with error code of 0. 
1011b
A binary value—in this example, a 4-bit value. 
F0EA_0B02h
A hexadecimal value. Underscore characters may be inserted to improve readability.
128
Numbers without an alpha suffix are decimal unless the context indicates otherwise.
7:4
A bit range, from bit 7 to 4, inclusive. The high-order bit is shown first. Commas may be inserted
to indicate gaps.
CPUID FnXXXX_XXXX_RRR[FieldName]
Support for optional features or the value of an implementation-specific parameter of a processor
can be discovered by executing the CPUID instruction on that processor. To obtain this value,
software must execute the CPUID instruction with the function code XXXX_XXXXh in EAX and
then examine the field FieldName returned in register RRR. If the “_RRR” notation is followed by
“_xYYY”, register ECX must be set to the value YYYh before executing CPUID. When FieldName
is not given, the entire contents of register RRR contains the desired value. When determining
optional feature support, if the bit identified by FieldName is set to a one, the feature is supported
on that processor.
CR0–CR4
A register range, from register CR0 through CR4, inclusive, with the low-order register first.
CR0[PE], CR0.PE
Notation for referring to a field within a register—in this case, the PE field of the CR0 register.
[AMD Public Use]
