General-Purpose
223
Instruction Reference
24594—Rev. 3.37—July 2025
AMD64 Technology
in EventCountern means that the next event of that type will cause an event record to be stored. To 
count every jth event, a program should set EventIntervaln to j-1 and EventCountern to some 
starting value (where j-1 is a good initial count). If the counter value is larger than the interval, the 
first event record will be stored after a larger number of events than subsequent records.
8. LWP is started. The execution of LLWPCB is complete.
Notes
If none of the bits in the LWPCB.Flags specifies an available event, LLWPCB still enables LWP to
allow the use of the LWPINS instruction. However, no other event records will be stored.
A program can temporarily disable LWP by executing SLWPCB to obtain the current LWPCB
address, saving that value, and then executing LLWPCB with a register containing 0. It can later re-
enable LWP by executing LLWPCB with a register containing the saved address.
When LWP is enabled, it is typically an error to execute LLWPCB with the address of the active
LWPCB. When the hardware flushes the existing LWP state into the LWPCB, it may overwrite fields
that the application may have set to new LWP parameter values. The flushed values will then be loaded
as LWP is restarted. To reuse an LWPCB, an application should stop LWP by passing a zero to
LLWPCB, then prepare the LWPCB with new parameters and execute LLWPCB again to restart LWP.
Internally, LWP keeps the linear address of the LWPCB and the ring buffer. If the application changes
the value of DS, LWP will continue to collect samples even if the new DS value would no longer allow
access the LWPCB or the ring buffer. However, a #GP fault will occur if the application uses XRSTOR
to restore LWP state saved by XSAVE. Programs should avoid using XSAVE/XRSTOR on LWP state
if DS has changed. This only applies when the CPL != 0; kernel mode operation of XRSTOR is
unaffected by changes to DS. See instruction listing for XSAVE in APM Volume 4 for details.
Operating system and hypervisor code that runs when CPL ≠3 should use XSAVE and XRSTOR to
control LWP rather than using LLWPCB. Use WRMSR to write 0 to the LWP_CBADDR MSR to
immediately stop LWP without saving its current state.
It is possible to execute LLWPCB when the CPL != 3 or when SMM is active, but the system software
must ensure that the LWPCB and the entire ring buffer are properly mapped into writable memory in
order to avoid a #PF or #GP fault. Furthermore, if LWP is enabled when a kernel executes LLWPCB,
both the old and new control blocks and ring buffers must be accessible. Using LLWPCB in these
situations is not recommended.
LLWPCB is an LWP instruction. Support for LWP instructions is indicated by CPUID
Fn8000_0001_ECX[LWP] = 1.
For more information on using the CPUID instruction, see the instruction reference page for the
CPUID instruction on page 171. For a description of all feature flags related to instruction subset
support, see Appendix D, “Instruction Subsets and CPUID Feature Flags,” on page 613.
[AMD Public Use]
