7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
348
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Appendix B: Debugging
FPGA Configuration Time Debug
Device initialization and configuration issues can be caused by not having the FPGA 
configured fast enough to enter link training and be recognized by the system. Section 6.6 
of PCI Express Base Specification, rev. 2.1 [Ref 2] states two rules that might be impacted by 
FPGA Configuration Time:
•
A component must enter the LTSSM Detect state within 20 ms of the end of the 
Fundamental reset. 
•
A system must guarantee that all components intended to be software visible at boot 
time are ready to receive Configuration Requests within 100 ms of the end of 
Conventional Reset at the Root Complex.
These statements basically mean the FPGA must be configured within a certain finite time, 
and not meeting these requirements could cause problems with link training and device 
recognition.
Configuration can be accomplished using an onboard PROM or dynamically using JTAG. 
When using JTAG to configure the device, configuration typically occurs after the Chipset 
has enumerated each peripheral. After configuring the FPGA, a soft reset is required to 
restart enumeration and configuration of the device. A soft reset on a Windows based PC is 
performed by going to Start > Shut Down and then selecting Restart. 
To eliminate FPGA configuration as a root cause, you should perform a soft restart of the 
system. Performing a soft reset on the system keeps power applied and forces 
re-enumeration of the device. If the device links up and is recognized after a soft reset is 
performed, then FPGA configuration is most likely the issue. Most typical systems use ATX 
power supplies which provides some margin on this 100 ms window as the power supply is 
normally valid before the 100 ms window starts. For more information on FPGA 
configuration, see FPGA Configuration in Chapter 3.
Clock Debug
One reason to not deassert the user_reset_out signal is that the fabric PLL (MMCM) and 
Transceiver PLL have not locked to the incoming clock. To verify lock, monitor the 
transceiver CPLLLOCK or QPLLLOCK output and the MMCM LOCK output. If the PLLs do not 
lock as expected, it is necessary to ensure the incoming reference clock meets the 
requirements in 7 Series FPGAs GTX/GTH Transceivers User Guide [Ref 13]. The REFCLK 
signal should be routed to the dedicated reference clock input pins on the serial transceiver, 
and the user design should instantiate the IBUFDS_GTE2 primitive in the user design. See 
the 7 Series FPGAs GTX/GTH Transceivers User Guide for more information on PCB layout 
requirements, including reference clock requirements. 
Reference clock jitter can potentially close both the TX and RX eyes, depending on the 
frequency content of the phase jitter. Therefore, as clean a reference clock as possible must 
be maintained. Reduce crosstalk on REFCLK by isolating the clock signal from nearby 
high-speed traces. Maintain a separation of at least 25 mils from the nearest aggressor 
Send Feedback
