7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
122
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
interface. However, to receive these messages in addition to signaling on this interface, 
enable this feature during customization of the core through the Vivado IDE.
Root Port Configuration
The Root Port of a PCI Express Root Complex does not send any internally generated 
messages on the PCI Express link, although messages can still be sent through the 
AXI4-Stream interface, such as a Set Slot Power Limit message. Any errors detected by the 
Integrated Block in Root Port configuration that could cause an error message to be sent 
are therefore signaled to the user application on the cfg_msg_* interface.
In Root Port configuration, the core also decodes received messages and signals these to 
the user application on this interface. When configured as a Root Port, the integrated block 
distinguishes between these received messages and error conditions detected internally by 
the asserting the cfg_msg_received signal.
Reporting User Error Conditions
The user application must report errors that occur during Completion handling using 
dedicated error signals on the core interface, and must observe the Device Power State 
before signaling an error to the core. If the user application detects an error (for example, 
a Completion Timeout) while the device has been programmed to a non-D0 state, the user 
application is responsible to signal the error after the device is programmed back to the D0 
state. 
After the user application signals an error, the core reports the error on the PCI Express Link 
and also sets the appropriate status bit(s) in the Configuration Space. Because status bits 
must be set in the appropriate Configuration Space register, the user application cannot 
generate error reporting packets on the transmit interface. The type of error-reporting 
packets transmitted depends on whether or not the error resulted from a Posted or 
Non-Posted Request, and if AER is enabled or disabled. User-reported Posted errors cause 
Message packets to be sent to the Root Complex if enabled to do so through the Device 
Control Error Reporting bits and/or the Status SERR Enable bit, and the AER Mask bits (if 
AER enabled). User-reported non-Posted errors cause Completion packets with 
non-successful status to be sent to the Root Complex, unless the error is regarded as an 
Advisory Non-Fatal Error. If AER is enabled, user-reported non-Posted errors can also cause 
Message packets to be sent, if enabled by the AER Mask bits. For more information about 
Advisory Non-Fatal Errors, see Chapter 6 of the PCI Express Base Specification. Errors on 
Non-Posted Requests can result in either Messages to the Root Complex or Completion 
packets with non-Successful status sent to the original Requester.
Error Types
The user application triggers different types of errors using the signals defined in 
Table 2-18. 
•
End-to-end CRC ECRC Error 
Send Feedback
