7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
309
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 6: Test Benches
The usrapp_tx block sends TLPs to the dsport block for transmission across the PCI Express 
Link to the Endpoint DUT. In turn, the Endpoint DUT device transmits TLPs across the PCI 
Express Link to the dsport block, which are subsequently passed to the usrapp_rx block. The 
dsport and core are responsible for the data link layer and physical link layer processing 
when communicating across the PCI Express logic. Both usrapp_tx and usrapp_rx utilize the 
usrapp_com block for shared functions, for example, TLP processing and log file outputting. 
Transaction sequences or test programs are initiated by the usrapp_tx block to stimulate the 
logic interface of the Endpoint device. TLP responses from the Endpoint device are received 
by the usrapp_rx block. Communication between the usrapp_tx and usrapp_rx blocks allow 
the usrapp_tx block to verify correct behavior and act accordingly when the usrapp_rx block 
has received TLPs from the Endpoint device.
Simulating the Example Design
To simulate the design, see Simulating the Example Design.
Scaled Simulation Timeouts
The simulation model of the 7 Series FPGAs Integrated Block for PCI Express uses scaled 
down times during link training to allow for the link to train in a reasonable amount of time 
during simulation. According to the PCI Express Specification, rev. 2.1 [Ref 2], there are 
various timeouts associated with the link training and status state machine (LTSSM) states. 
The 7 series FPGAs integrated block scales these timeouts by a factor of 256 in simulation, 
except in the Recovery Speed_1 LTSSM state, where the timeouts are not scaled.
Test Selection
Table 6-1 describes the tests provided with the Root Port Model, followed by specific 
sections for VHDL and Verilog test selection.
Table 6-1:
Root Port Model Provided Tests
Test Name
Test in
VHDL/Verilog
Description
sample_smoke_test0
Verilog and 
VHDL
Issues a PCI Type 0 Configuration Read TLP and waits for the 
completion TLP; then compares the value returned with the expected 
Device/Vendor ID value. 
Send Feedback
