7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
174
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
2.
Sized appropriately for both stage 1 and stage 2; that is, the PROM must be able to 
contain the entire bitstream.
°
For Tandem PROM, both stage 1 and stage 2 are stored here; this bitstream is 
slightly larger (4-5%) than a standard bitstream.
°
For Tandem PCIe, the bitstream size is typically about 15-25% of a comparable full 
bitstream, but this can vary slightly due to design implementation results, device 
selection, and effectiveness of compression.
3.
Meets the configuration time requirement for PCI Express based on the stage 1 
bitstream size and the calculations for the bitstream loading time. See Calculating 
Bitstream Load Time for Tandem.
See the 7 Series FPGAs Configuration User Guide (UG470) for a list of supported PROMs and 
device bitstream sizes.
Programming the Device
There are no special considerations for programming Tandem bitstreams versus standard 
bitstreams into a PROM. You can program a Tandem bitstream using all standard 
programming methods, such as JTAG, Slave and Master SelectMAP, SPI, and BPI. Regardless 
of the programming method used, the DONE pin is asserted after the stage 1 is loaded and 
operation begins. 
To prepare for SPI or BPI flash programming, the appropriate settings must be enabled prior 
to bitstream generation. This is done by adding the specific flash device settings in the 
design XDC file, as shown here. Examples can be seen in the create_bitstreams.tcl 
script. Copy the existing (commented) options to meet your board and flash programming 
requirements.
Here are examples for Tandem PROM:
set_property BITSTREAM.CONFIG.CONFIGRATE 3 [current_design]
  # This can vary up to 66MHz
set_property BITSTREAM.CONFIG.PERSIST BPI16 [current_design] 
  # Set this option to match your flash device requirements 
Both internally generated CCLK and externally provided EMCCLK are supported for SPI and 
BPI programming. EMCCLK can be used to provide faster configuration rates due to tighter 
tolerances on the configuration clock. See the 7 Series FPGAs Configuration User Guide 
(UG470) [Ref 7] for details on the use of EMCCLK with the Design Suite.
For more information on configuration in the Vivado Design Suite, see the Vivado Design 
Suite User Guide: Programming and Debugging (UG908) [Ref 19].
Send Feedback
