7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
290
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 5: Example Design
Configurator ROM
The Configurator ROM stores the necessary configuration transactions to configure a PCI 
Express Endpoint. This ROM interfaces with the Configurator Block to send these 
transactions over the PCI Express link.
The example ROM file included with this design shows the operations needed to configure 
a 7 Series FPGAs Integrated Endpoint Block for PCI Express and PIO Example Design.
The Configurator ROM can be customized for other Endpoints and PCI Express system 
topologies. The unique set of configuration transactions required depends on the Endpoint 
that interacts with the Root Port. This information can be obtained from the documentation 
provided with the Endpoint. 
The ROM file follows the format specified in the Verilog specification (IEEE 1364-2001) 
section 17.2.8, which describes using the $readmemb function to pre-load data into a RAM 
or ROM. Verilog-style comments are allowed. 
The file is read by the simulator or synthesis tool and each memory value encountered is 
used as a single location in memory. Digits can be separated by an underscore character (_) 
for clarity without constituting a new location.
Each configuration transaction specified uses two adjacent memory locations: 
•
The first location specifies the header fields. Header fields are on even addresses.
•
The second location specifies the 32-bit data payload. (For CfgRd TLPs and Messages 
without data, the data location is unused but still present.) Data payloads are on odd 
addresses.
For headers, Messages and CfgRd/CfgWr TLPs use different fields. For all TLPs, two bits 
specify the TLP type. For Messages, Message Routing and Message Code are specified. For 
CfgRd/CfgWr TLPs, Function Number, Register Number, and 1st DWORD Byte-Enable are 
specified. The specific bit layout is shown in the example ROM file.
PIO Master
The PIO Master demonstrates how a user application design might interact with the 
Configurator Block. It directs the Configurator Block to bring up the link partner at the 
appropriate time, and then (after successful bring-up) generates and consumes bus traffic. 
The PIO Master performs writes and reads across the PCI Express Link to the PIO Slave 
Example Design (from the Endpoint core) to confirm basic operation of the link and the 
Endpoint.
The PIO Master waits until user_lnk_up is asserted by the Root Port. It then asserts 
start_config to the Configurator Block. When the Configurator Block asserts 
finished_config, the PIO Master writes and reads to/from each BAR in the PIO Slave design. 
If the readback data matches what was written, the PIO Master asserts its 
Send Feedback
