7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
169
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
Method 2 – Migrating the PCIe Design into a New Vivado Project
In cases where it is not possible to use method one above, the following steps should be 
followed to use the PCIe core and the desired Tandem flow (PROM or PCIe) in a new project. 
The example project has many of the required RTL and scripts that must be migrated into 
the user design.
1.
Create the example design.
Generate the example design as described in the Tandem PROM KC705 Example Tool 
Flow and Tandem PCIe KC705 Example Tool Flow.
2.
Migrate the clock module.
If the Include Shared Logic (Clocking) in the example design option is set in the 
Shared Logic tab during core generation, then the pipe_clock_i clock module is 
instantiated in the top level of the example design. This clock module should be 
migrated to the user design to provide the necessary PCIe clocks. 
Note: These clocks can be used in other parts of the user design if desired.
3.
Migrate the top-level constraint.
The example Xilinx design constraints (XDC) file contains timing constraints, location 
constraints and Pblock constraints for the PCIe core. All of these constraints (other than 
the I/O location and I/O standard constraints) need to be migrated to the user design. 
Several of the constraints contain hierarchical references that require updating if the 
hierarchy of the design is different than the example design. 
4.
Migrate the top-level Pblock constraint.
The following constraint is easy to miss so it is called out specifically in this step. The 
Pblock constraint should point to the top level of the PCIe core.
add_cells_to_pblock [get_pblocks main_pblock_boot] [get_cells -quiet [<path>]]
IMPORTANT: Do not make any changes to the physical constraints defined in the XDC file because the 
constraints are device dependent. 
5.
Add the Tandem PCIe IP to the Vivado project.
Click Add Sources in the Flow Navigator. In the Add Source wizard, select Add Existing 
IP and then browse to the XCI file that was used to create the Tandem PCIe example 
design.
6.
Copy the appropriate SPI or BPI settings from the example design XDC file and paste 
them in your design XDC file. 
Update the Vivado settings to run this Tcl file before the bitstream is generated. 
Send Feedback
