7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
213
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 4: Design Flow Steps
ID Initial Values
•
Vendor ID: Identifies the manufacturer of the device or application. Valid identifiers 
are assigned by the PCI Special Interest Group to guarantee that each identifier is 
unique. The default value, 10EEh, is the Vendor ID for Xilinx. Enter a vendor 
identification number here. FFFFh is reserved.
•
Device ID: A unique identifier for the application; the default value, which depends on 
the configuration selected, is 70<link speed><link width>h. This field can be any value; 
change this value for the application.
IMPORTANT: Since this Device ID parameter is evaluated based on the device family (7 in case of 7 
series IPs), EP, or RP mode, link width and link speed, it is expected to change whenever any of these 
parameters changes. For example, if the value of the Device ID is changed first and then any one of the 
link speed, link width, EP, or RP is changed, then the Device ID value is re-evaluated and replaces the 
previous value set by you. Hence, Xilinx recommends changing the link width, link speed, and Device 
Port type first and then the Device ID value.
•
Revision ID: Indicates the revision of the device or application; an extension of the 
Device ID. The default value is 00h; enter values appropriate for the application.
•
Subsystem Vendor ID: Further qualifies the manufacturer of the device or application. 
Enter a Subsystem Vendor ID here; the default value is 10EE. Typically, this value is the 
same as Vendor ID. Setting the value to 0000h can cause compliance testing issues.
•
Subsystem ID: Further qualifies the manufacturer of the device or application. This 
value is typically the same as the Device ID; the default value depends on the lane 
width and link speed selected. Setting the value to 0000h can cause compliance testing 
issues.
Class Code
The Class Code identifies the general function of a device, and is divided into three 
byte-size fields:
•
Base Class: Broadly identifies the type of function performed by the device.
•
Sub-Class: More specifically identifies the device function.
•
Interface: Defines a specific register-level programming interface, if any, allowing 
device-independent software to interface with the device.
Class code encoding can be found at www.pcisig.com.
Class Code Look-up Assistant
The Class Code Look-up Assistant provides the Base Class, Sub-Class, and Interface values 
for a selected general function of a device. This Look-up Assistant tool only displays the 
three values for a selected function. You must enter the values in Class Code for these 
values to be translated into device settings.
Send Feedback
