7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
136
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
Active State Power Management 
The Active State Power Management (ASPM) functionality is autonomous and transparent 
from a user-logic function perspective. The core supports the conditions required for ASPM. 
The integrated block supports ASPM L0s. 
Programmed Power Management
To achieve considerable power savings on the PCI Express hierarchy tree, the core supports 
these link states of Programmed Power Management (PPM):
•
L0: Active State (data exchange state)
•
L1: Higher Latency, lower power standby state
•
L3: Link Off State
The Programmed Power Management Protocol is initiated by the Downstream Component/
Upstream Port.
PPM L0 State
The L0 state represents normal operation and is transparent to the user logic. The core 
reaches the L0 (active state) after a successful initialization and training of the PCI Express 
Link(s) as per the protocol.
PPM L1 State
These steps outline the transition of the core to the PPM L1 state:
1.
The transition to a lower power PPM L1 state is always initiated by an upstream device, 
by programming the PCI Express device power state to D3-hot (or to D1 or D2 if they are 
supported).
2.
The device power state is communicated to the user logic through the 
cfg_pmcsr_powerstate[1:0] output.
3.
The core then throttles/stalls the user logic from initiating any new transactions on the 
user interface by deasserting s_axis_tx_tready. Any pending transactions on the 
user interface are, however, accepted fully and can be completed later. 
There are two exceptions to this rule:
°
The core is configured as an Endpoint and the User Configuration Space is enabled. 
In this situation, you must refrain from sending new Request TLPs if 
cfg_pmcsr_powerstate[1:0] indicates non-D0, but you can return 
Completions to Configuration transactions targeting User Configuration space.
°
The core is configured as a Root Port. To be compliant in this situation, refrain from 
sending new Requests if cfg_pmcsr_powerstate[1:0] indicates non-D0.
Send Feedback
