7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
173
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
The remaining user I/O in the design are pulled High, by default, during stage 2 
configuration. The use of the PUDC_B pin will, when held High, force all I/O in banks beyond 
the three noted above to be tri-stated. Between stage 1 and stage 2, which for Tandem PCIe 
could be a considerable amount of time, these pins are pulled Low by the internal weak 
pull-down for each I/O as these pins are unconfigured at that time.
Configuration Pin Behavior
The DONE pin indicates completion of configuration with standard approaches. DONE is 
also used for Tandem Configuration, but in a slightly different manner. DONE pulses High at 
the end of stage 1, when the start-up sequences are run. It returns Low when stage 2 
loading begins. For Tandem PROM, this happens immediately because stage 2 is in the 
same bit file. For Tandem PCIe, this happens when the second bitstream is delivered to the 
ICAP interface. It pulls High and stays High at the end of the stage 2 of configuration.
Configuration Persist (Tandem PROM Only)
Configuration Persist is required in Tandem PROM configuration for 7 series devices. Dual 
purpose I/O used for stage 1 and stage 2 configuration cannot be re-purposed as user I/O 
after stage 2 configuration is complete. Because of this, the configuration flash cannot be 
accessed by the user design after Tandem PROM configuration completes. Also, due to the 
requirement of PERSIST, the ICAP is unavailable for Tandem PROM designs. Tandem PCIe 
should be used if configuration flash update from the FPGA user design or access to the 
ICAP is required.
IMPORTANT: Examples for PERSIST settings are shown in the create_bitstreams.tcl script, 
generated with the Tandem IP. You must copy the PERSIST, CONFIGRATE and (optionally) 
SPI_BUSWIDTH properties to your design XDC file, and modify the values as needed. This action 
ensures the PERSIST settings required for the design are not overwritten when the IP core is updated.
If the PERSIST option is set correctly for the needed configuration mode, but necessary 
dual-mode I/O pins are still occupied by user I/O, the following error is issued for each 
instance during write_bitstream:
ERROR: [Designutils 12-1767] Cannot add persist programming for site IOB_X0Y151.
ERROR: [Designutils 12-1767] Cannot add persist programming for site IOB_X0Y152.
The user I/O occupying these sites must be relocated to use Tandem PROM.
PROM Selection
Configuration PROMs have no specific requirements unique to Tandem Configuration. 
However, to meet the 100 ms specification, you must select a PROM that meets the 
following three criteria:
1.
Supported by Xilinx configuration.
Send Feedback
