7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
121
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
In this configuration, the DSN Capability occupies the registers at 100h-108h, and the 
VSEC Capability occupies registers at addresses 10Ch to 120h.
The remaining PCI Express Extended Configuration Space, starting at address 124h is 
available to implement. For this example, registers in the address region starting 168h were 
chosen for implement. The core returns successful completions with 0x00000000 for 
Configuration accesses to registers 124h-164h. Table 3-39 also illustrates a case where 
only registers from 168h to 47Ch are implemented. In this case, you are responsible for 
returning successful Completions with 0x00000000 for configuration accesses to 
480h-FFFh.
Additional Packet Handling Requirements
The user application must manage the mechanisms described in this section to ensure 
protocol compliance, because the core does not manage them automatically.
Generation of Completions
The core does not generate Completions for Memory Reads or I/O requests made by a 
remote device. You must service these completions according to the rules specified in the 
PCI Express Base Specification [Ref 2].
Tracking Non-Posted Requests and Inbound Completions
The integrated block does not track transmitted I/O requests or Memory Reads that have 
yet to be serviced with inbound Completions. The user application is required to keep track 
of such requests using the Tag ID or other information.
One Memory Read request can be answered by several Completion packets. The user 
application must accept all inbound Completions associated with the original Memory Read 
until all requested data has been received.
The PCI Express Base Specification requires that an Endpoint advertise infinite Completion 
Flow Control credits as a receiver; the Endpoint can only transmit Memory Reads and I/O 
requests if it has enough space to receive subsequent Completions.
The integrated block does not keep track of receive-buffer space for Completion. Rather, it 
sets aside a fixed amount of buffer space for inbound Completions. The user application 
must keep track of this buffer space to know if it can transmit requests requiring a 
Completion response. See Appendix C, Managing Receive-Buffer Space for Inbound 
Completions for Inbound Completions for more information.
Handling Message TLPs
By default, the 7 Series FPGAs Integrated Block for PCI Express does not route any received 
messages to the AXI4-Stream interface. It signals the receipt of messages on the cfg_msg_* 
Send Feedback
