7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
207
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 4
Design Flow Steps
This chapter describes customizing and generating the core, constraining the core, and the 
simulation, synthesis and implementation steps that are specific to this IP core. More 
detailed information about the standard Vivado® design flows and the Vivado IP integrator 
can be found in the following Vivado Design Suite user guides:
•
Vivado Design Suite User Guide: Designing IP Subsystems using IP Integrator (UG994) 
[Ref 21]
•
Vivado Design Suite User Guide: Designing with IP (UG896) [Ref 17]
•
Vivado Design Suite User Guide: Getting Started (UG910) [Ref 16]
•
Vivado Design Suite User Guide: Logic Simulation (UG900) [Ref 18]
Customizing and Generating the Core
This section includes information on using the Vivado Design Suite to customize and 
generate the core.
Note: If you are customizing and generating the core in the IP integrator, see the Vivado Design 
Suite User Guide: Designing IP Subsystems using IP Integrator (UG994) [Ref 21] for detailed 
information. IP integrator might auto-compute certain configuration values when validating or 
generating the design. To check whether the values do change, see the description of the parameter 
in this section. To view the parameter value you can run the validate_bd_design command in the 
Tcl Console.
The 7 Series FPGAs Integrated Block for PCI Express® core is a fully configurable and highly 
customizable solution. In the Vivado Integrated Design Environment (IDE), you can 
customize the IP for use in your design by specifying values for the various parameters 
associated with the IP core using the following steps:
1.
Select the IP from the IP catalog.
2.
Double-click the selected IP, or select the Customize IP command from the toolbar or 
right-click menu.
The Customize IP dialog box for the 7 Series FPGAs Integrated Block for PCI Express consists 
of two modes: Base Mode and Advanced Mode. To select a mode, use the Mode drop-down 
list on the first page of the Customize IP dialog box. 
Send Feedback
