7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
168
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
the host can query the target device to know which matching stage 2 bitstream should be 
delivered over the PCIe link to complete the device configuration.
Tandem PCIe Summary
By using Tandem PCIe, you can significantly reduce the amount of time required for 
configuration of the PCIe portion of a 7 series design, and can reduce the bitstream flash 
storage requirements. The 7 Series Gen2 Integrated Block for PCIe core manages many 
design details, allowing you to focus your attention on the user application.
Using Tandem With a User Hardware Design
There are two methods available to apply the Tandem flow to a user design. The first 
method is to use the example design that comes with the core. The second method is to 
import the PCIe IP into an existing design and change the hierarchy of the design if 
required.
Regardless of which method you use, the PCIe example design should be created to get the 
example clocking structure, timing constraints, and physical block (Pblock) constraints 
needed for the Tandem solution.
Method 1 – Using the Existing PCI Express Example Design
This is the simplest method in terms of what must be done with the PCI Express core, but 
might not be feasible for all users. If this approach meets your design structure needs, 
follow these steps.
1.
Create the example design.
Generate the example design as described in the Tandem PROM KC705 Example Tool 
Flow and Tandem PCIe KC705 Example Tool Flow.
2.
Insert the user application.
Replace the PIO example design with the user design. It is recommended that the global 
and top-level elements, such as I/O and global clocking, be inserted in the top-level 
design. 
3.
Copy the appropriate SPI or BPI settings from the create_bitstream.tcl file and 
paste them in a new Tcl file. 
Update the Vivado settings to run this Tcl file before the bitstream is generated. 
4.
Implement the design as normal.
Send Feedback
