7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
119
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
Advanced Error Reporting Capability
The core implements the Advanced Error Reporting (AER) Capability structure as defined in 
PCI Express Base Specification, rev. 2.1 [Ref 2]. All optional bits defined in the specification 
are supported. Multiple Header Logging is not supported.
When AER is enabled, the core responds to error conditions by setting the appropriate 
Configuration Space bit(s) and sending the appropriate error messages in the manner 
described in PCI Express Base Specification, rev. 2.1.
For additional signaling requirements when AER is enabled, see AER Requirements. 
Resizable BAR Capability
The core implements the Resizable BAR Capability structure as defined in PCI Express Base 
Specification, rev. 2.1. For more information on the Resizable BAR feature of the integrated 
block, see Resizable BAR Implementation-Specific Information (Endpoint Only).
User-Implemented Configuration Space
The core enables you to optionally implement registers in the PCI Configuration Space, the 
PCI Express Extended Configuration Space, or both, in the user application. The user 
application must return Config Completions for all address within this space. For more 
information about enabling and customizing this feature, see Chapter 4, Customizing and 
Generating the Core.
PCI Configuration Space
If you choose to implement registers within 0xA8 to 0xFF in the PCI Configuration Space, 
the start address of the address region you wish to implement can be defined during the 
core generation process. 
The user application is responsible for generating all Completions to Configuration Reads 
and Writes from the user-defined start address to the end of PCI Configuration Space 
(0xFF). Configuration Reads to unimplemented registers within this range should be 
responded to with a Completion with 0x00000000 as the data, and configuration writes 
should be responded to with a successful Completion. 
For example, to implement address range 0xC0 to 0xCF, there are several address ranges 
defined that should be treated differently depending on the access. See Table 3-38 for 
more details on this example.
Send Feedback
