7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
200
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
Configuration Access Specification Requirements
Two PCI Express specification items are relevant to configuration access: 
1.
Section 6.6 of PCI Express Base Specification, rev 1.1 states “A system must guarantee 
that all components intended to be software visible at boot time are ready to receive 
Configuration Requests within 100 ms of the end of Fundamental Reset at the Root 
Complex.” For detailed information about how this is accomplished, see the 
specification [Ref 2]. 
Xilinx compliance to this specification is validated by the PCI Express-CV tests. The PCI 
Special Interest Group (PCI-SIG) provides the PCI Express Configuration Test Software to 
verify the device meets the requirement of being able to receive configuration accesses 
within 100 ms of the end of the fundamental reset. The software, available to any 
member of the PCI-SIG, generates several resets using the in-band reset mechanism and 
PERST# toggling to validate robustness and compliance to the specification. 
2.
Section 6.6 of PCI Express Base Specification v1.1 [Ref 2] defines three parameters 
necessary “where power and PERST# are supplied.” The parameter TPVPERL applies to 
FPGA configuration timing and is defined as:
TPVPERL - PERST# must remain active at least this long after power becomes valid.
The PCI Express Base Specification does not give a specific value for TPVPERL – only its 
meaning is defined. The most common form factor used with the core is an ATX-based 
form factor. The PCI Express Card Electromechanical Specification [Ref 2] focuses on 
requirements for ATX-based form factors. This applies to most designs targeted to 
standard desktop or server type motherboards. Figure 3-91 shows the relationship 
between Power Stable and PERST#.
X-Ref Target - Figure 3-91
Figure 3-91:
Power Up
3.3 VAUX
3.3V/12V
PERST#
PCI Express Link
Inactive
Active
Power Stable
100 ms
TPVPERL
Send Feedback
