7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
175
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
Encrypted Bitstreams
Bitstream encryption is supported for both Tandem PROM and Tandem PCIe for all 7 series 
and Zynq devices that support Tandem Configuration.
Multiboot
MultiBoot can be used with either Tandem PCIe or Tandem PROM in 7 series devices, but 
note the following considerations:
•
Consider the total time from the initial delivery of the update image to the time when 
stage 1 of the golden image is loaded. In many cases, especially if the update image 
failure is late in Tandem PROM stage 2, the elapsed time to get a final stage 1 image 
loaded may exceed the 120ms goal.
•
When using Tandem PCIe, ensure that the correct stage 2 image is delivered. Stage 1 
and stage 2 must remain paired from a single implemented design, so if the system has 
loaded the golden stage 1, the golden stage 2 must be the image delivered over the 
PCIe link.
•
SPIx4 is not supported for Tandem PROM fallback. If this configuration mode is 
selected and fallback is triggered, the configuration will hang prior to stage 2 loading. 
SPIx1 is supported.
Increasing the Loading Clock Frequency for Zynq-7000 Devices
Zynq-7000 devices have multiple phases in the boot-up sequence. Two of these phases are 
relevant to Tandem Configuration: the loading of the FSBL and the loading of the bitstream. 
To ensure that your stage 1 Tandem design loads within the boot time requirement, increase 
the clock frequencies for loading the bitstream and the FSBL. Verify that your board layout 
and PROM selection are appropriate for your desired loading frequencies. 
The following sections describe how to increase the loading clock frequencies for the 
bitstream and the FSBL. 
Note: Although the steps described apply to all Zynq-7000 devices, the Zynq ZC706 development 
platform is used for reference where required.
Changing the Bitstream Load Frequency
The default Zynq-7000 device PS configuration uses a QSPI clock frequency of 200 MHz, 
which is then divided by eight to generate the bitstream loading clock of 25 MHz. To 
increase this loading frequency, decrease the QSPI clock frequency to 166 MHz, and then 
divide by two to generate a bitstream loading clock of 83 MHz. 
Send Feedback
