7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
275
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 5: Example Design
•
Each space is implemented with a 2 KB memory. If the corresponding BAR is configured 
to a wider aperture, accesses beyond the 2 KB limit wrap around and overlap the 2 KB 
memory space.
•
The PIO design supports one I/O space BAR, which by default is disabled, but can be 
changed if desired. 
TIP: Although there are limitations to the PIO design, Verilog or VHDL source code is provided so you 
can tailor the example design to your specific needs. 
TLP Data Flow
This section defines the data flow of a TLP successfully processed by the PIO design. For 
detailed information about the interface signals within the sub-blocks of the PIO design, 
see Receive Path and Transmit Path.
The PIO design successfully processes single DWORD payload Memory Read and Write TLPs 
and I/O Read and Write TLPs. Memory Read or Memory Write TLPs of lengths larger than 
one DWORD are not processed correctly by the PIO design; however, the core does accept 
these TLPs and passes them along to the PIO design. If the PIO design receives a TLP with 
a length of greater than one DWORD, the TLP is received completely from the core and 
discarded. No corresponding completion is generated. 
Memory and I/O Write TLP Processing
When the Endpoint for PCIe receives a Memory or I/O Write TLP, the TLP destination 
address and transaction type are compared with the values in the core BARs. If the TLP 
passes this comparison check, the core passes the TLP to the Receive AXI4-Stream interface 
of the PIO design. The PIO design handles Memory writes and I/O TLP writes in different 
ways: the PIO design responds to I/O writes by generating a Completion Without Data (cpl), 
a requirement of the PCI Express specification.
Along with the start of packet, end of packet, and ready handshaking signals, the Receive 
AXI4-Stream interface also asserts the appropriate (rx_bar_hit[7:0]) m_axis_rx_tuser[9:2] 
signal to indicate to the PIO design the specific destination BAR that matched the incoming 
TLP. On reception, the RX State Machine of the PIO design processes the incoming Write TLP 
and extracts the TLPs data and relevant address fields so that it can pass this along to the 
internal block RAM write request controller of the PIO design. 
Based on the specific rx_bar_hit[7:0] signal asserted, the RX State Machine indicates to the 
internal write controller the appropriate 2 KB block RAM to use prior to asserting the write 
enable request. For example, if an Memory Write 32 Request is received by the core 
targeting BAR0, the core passes the TLP to the PIO design and asserts rx_bar_hit[0]. The RX 
State machine extracts the lower address bits and the data field from the Memory Write 32 
Request TLP and instructs the internal Memory Write controller to begin a write to the block 
RAM. 
Send Feedback
