7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
130
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
Resizable BAR Implementation-Specific Information (Endpoint Only)
The integrated block can support up to six resizable BARs; however, the BAR Index field of 
the Resizable BAR Capability Registers (0 through 5) must be in ascending order. For 
example, if Bar Index (0) is set to 4 (indicating it points to the BAR[4]), Bar Index (1) can be 
set to 5 and Bar Index (2 - 5) cannot be used and is disabled. In this example, if BAR[4] 
represents a 64-bit BAR (using BAR5 for the upper 32 bits), Bar Index(1) cannot be used.
When the Bar Size field of a Resizable BAR Capability is programmed, any value previously 
programmed in the corresponding BAR is cleared and the number of writable bits in that 
BAR is immediately changed to reflect the new size.
Error Detection
The PCI Express Base Specification identifies a number of errors a PCIe port should check for, 
and a number of additional optional checks.
Most of the required checks (including several of the optional checks) are carried out by the 
integrated block. Some, however, need to be implemented. The integrated block performs 
checks on received TLPs only. You must perform all checks on transmit TLPs. Details of 
checks made by the integrated block or you are shown in Table 3-42. This table is organized 
broadly in line with the sections of the PCI Express Base Specification describing how these 
checks should be made.
X-Ref Target - Figure 3-66
Figure 3-66:
AER Header Logging
user_clk
cfg_err_<condition>
cfg_err_aer_headerlog[127:0]
cfg_err_aer_headerlog_set
H0H1H2[H3]
Cleared by Software
Header of TLP with Error
Table 3-42:
Error Checking Summary
PCI Express 
Specification 
Section
Check is 
Required 
or Optional
Where Check 
is 
Implemented
Checks Made Regarding TLPs with Data Payloads
That the data payload of a TLP does not exceed Max_Payload_Size. 
Any TLP that violates this rule is a Malformed TLP.
2.2.2
Required
Integrated 
Block
That where a TLP includes data, the actual amount of data matches 
the value in the length field. Any TLP that violates this rule is a 
Malformed TLP.
2.2.2
Required
Integrated 
Block
Send Feedback
