7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
289
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 5: Example Design
The Configurator Block steps through the Configuration ROM file and sends the TLPs 
specified therein. Supported TLP types are Message, Message w/Data, Configuration Write 
(Type 0), and Configuration Read (Type 0). For the Configuration packets, the Configurator 
Block waits for a Completion to be returned before transmitting the next TLP. If the 
Completion TLP fields do not match the expected values, PCI Express configuration fails. 
However, the Data field of Completion TLPs is ignored and not checked
Note: There is no completion timeout mechanism in the Configurator Block, so if no Completion is 
returned, the Configurator Block waits forever.
The Configurator Block has these parameters, which you can modify:
•
TCQ: Clock-to-out delay modeled by all registers in design.
•
EXTRA_PIPELINE: Controls insertion of an extra pipeline stage on the Receive 
AXI4-Stream interface for timing.
•
ROM_FILE: File name containing configuration steps to perform.
•
ROM_SIZE: Number of lines in ROM_FILE containing data (equals number of TLPs to 
send/2).
•
REQUESTER_ID: Value for the Requester ID field in outgoing TLPs.
When the Configurator Block design is used, all TLP traffic must pass through the 
Configurator Block. The user design is responsible for asserting the start_config input (for 
one clock cycle) to initiate the configuration process when user_lnk_up has been asserted 
by the core. Following start_config, the Configurator Block performs whatever 
configuration steps have been specified in the Configuration ROM. During configuration, 
the Configurator Block controls the core AXI4-Stream interface. Following configuration, all 
AXI4-Stream traffic is routed to/from the user application, which in the case of this example 
design is the PIO Master. The end of configuration is signaled by the assertion of 
finished_config. If configuration is unsuccessful for some reason, failed_config is also 
asserted.
If used in a system that supports PCIe® v2.2 5.0 Gb/s links, the Configurator Block begins 
its process by attempting to up-train the link from 2.5 Gb/s to 5.0 Gb/s. This feature is 
enabled depending on the LINK_CAP_MAX_LINK_SPEED parameter on the Configurator 
Wrapper. 
The Configurator does not support the user throttling received data on the Receive 
AXI4-Stream interface. Because of this, the Root Port inputs which control throttling are not 
included on the Configurator Wrapper. These signals are m_axis_rx_tready and 
rx_np_ok. This is a limitation of the Configurator example design and not of the core in 
Root Port configuration. This means that the user design interfacing with the Configurator 
example design must be able to accept received data at line rate.
Send Feedback
