7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
286
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 5: Example Design
Configurator Example Design
The Configurator example design, included with the 7 Series FPGAs Integrated Block for PCI 
Express in Root Port configuration generated by the Vivado IDE, is a synthesizable, 
lightweight design that demonstrates the minimum setup required for the integrated block 
in Root Port configuration to begin application-level transactions with an Endpoint.
System Overview
PCI Express devices require setup after power-on, before devices in the system can begin 
application specific communication with each other. At least two devices connected 
through a PCI Express Link must have their Configuration spaces initialized and be 
enumerated to communicate.
Root Ports facilitate PCI Express enumeration and configuration by sending Configuration 
Read (CfgRd) and Write (CfgWr) TLPs to the downstream devices such as Endpoints and 
Switches to set up the configuration spaces of those devices. When this process is 
complete, higher-level interactions, such as Memory Reads (MemRd TLPs) and Writes 
(MemWr TLPs), can occur within the PCI Express System.
The Configurator example design described here performs the configuration transactions 
required to enumerate and configure the Configuration space of a single connected PCI 
Express Endpoint and allow application-specific interactions to occur. 
Configurator Example Design Hardware
The Configurator example design consists of four high-level blocks:
•
Root Port: The 7 series FPGAs integrated block in Root Port configuration.
•
Configurator Block: Logical block which interacts with the configuration space of a 
PCI Express Endpoint device connected to the Root Port.
•
Configurator ROM: Read-only memory that sources configuration transactions to the 
Configurator Block.
•
PIO Master: Logical block which interacts with the user logic connected to the 
Endpoint by exchanging data packets and checking the validity of the received data. 
The data packets are limited to a single DWORD and represent the type of traffic that 
would be generated by a CPU.
Note: The Configurator Block, Configurator ROM, and Root Port are logically grouped in the RTL 
code within a wrapper file called the Configurator Wrapper.
The Configurator example design, as delivered, is designed to be used with the PIO Slave 
example included with Xilinx Endpoint cores and described in Chapter 6, Test Benches. The 
PIO Master is useful for simple bring-up and debugging, and is an example of how to 
Send Feedback
