7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
189
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
The user application interface of the core has an output signal called 
user_reset_out. This signal is deasserted synchronously with respect to 
user_clk_out. Signal user_reset_out is asserted as a result of any of these 
conditions: 
•
Fundamental Reset: Occurs (cold or warm) due to assertion of sys_rst_n.
•
PLL within the Core Wrapper: Loses lock, indicating an issue with the stability of the 
clock input. 
•
Loss of Transceiver PLL Lock: Any transceiver loses lock, indicating an issue with the 
PCI Express Link.
The user_reset_out signal deasserts synchronously with user_clk_out after all of the 
above conditions are resolved, allowing the core to attempt to train and resume normal 
operation.
IMPORTANT: Systems designed to the PCI Express electro-mechanical specification provide a sideband 
reset signal, which uses 3.3V signaling levels—see the FPGA data sheet to understand the requirements 
for interfacing to such signals.
Protocol Layers
The functions of the protocol layers, as defined by the PCI Express Base Specification [Ref 2], 
include generation and processing of transaction layer packets (TLPs), flow control 
management, initialization, power management, data protection, error checking and retry, 
physical link interface initialization, maintenance and status tracking, serialization, 
deserialization, and other circuitry for interface operation. Each layer is defined in the next 
subsections.
Transaction Layer
The Transaction Layer is the upper layer of the PCI Express architecture, and its primary 
function is to accept, buffer, and disseminate Transaction Layer packets or TLPs. TLPs 
communicate information through the use of memory, I/O, configuration, and message 
transactions. To maximize the efficiency of communication between devices, the 
Transaction Layer enforces PCI compliant Transaction ordering rules and manages TLP 
buffer space through credit-based flow control.
Data Link Layer
The Data Link Layer acts as an intermediate stage between the Transaction Layer and the 
Physical Layer. Its primary responsibility is to provide a reliable mechanism for the exchange 
of TLPs between two components on a link.
Send Feedback
