7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
272
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 5: Example Design
Programmed Input/Output: Endpoint Example 
Design
Programmed Input/Output (PIO) transactions are generally used by a PCI Express system 
host CPU to access Memory Mapped Input/Output (MMIO) and Configuration Mapped 
Input/Output (CMIO) locations in the PCI Express logic. Endpoints for PCI Express accept 
Memory and I/O Write transactions and respond to Memory and I/O Read transactions with 
Completion with Data transactions.
The PIO example design (PIO design) is included with the core in an Endpoint configuration 
generated by the Vivado Integrated Design Environment (IDE). 
TIP: You can bring up the system board and verify the link and functionality of the board using the PIO 
design, which is an established working design.
Note: The PIO design Port Model is shared by the 7 Series FPGAs Integrated Block for PCI Express, 
Endpoint Block Plus for PCI Express, and Endpoint PIPE for PCI Express solutions. This chapter 
represents all the solutions generically using the name Endpoint for PCI Express (or Endpoint for 
PCIe®). 
System Overview
The PIO design is a simple target-only application that interfaces with the Endpoint for PCIe 
core Transaction (AXI4-Stream) interface and is provided as a starting point for building 
your own designs. These features are included: 
•
Four transaction-specific 2 KB target regions using the internal Xilinx FPGA block 
RAMs, providing a total target space of 8192 bytes
•
Supports single DWORD payload Read and Write PCI Express transactions to 32-/64-bit 
address memory spaces and I/O space with support for completion transaction layer 
packets (TLPs)
•
Utilizes the (rx_bar_hit[7:0]) m_axis_rx_tuser[9:2] signals of the core to differentiate 
between TLP destination Base Address Registers
•
Provides separate implementations optimized for 32-bit, 64-bit, and 128-bit 
AXI4-Stream interfaces
Figure 5-3 illustrates the PCI Express system architecture components, consisting of a Root 
Complex, a PCI Express switch device, and an Endpoint for PCIe. PIO operations move data 
downstream from the Root Complex (CPU register) to the Endpoint, and/or upstream from 
the Endpoint to the Root Complex (CPU register). In either case, the PCI Express protocol 
request to move the data is initiated by the host CPU.
Send Feedback
