7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
170
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
7.
Implement the design as normal.
Tandem Configuration RTL Design
Tandem Configuration requires slight modifications from the non-tandem PCI Express 
product. This section indicates the additional logic integrated within the core and the 
additional responsibilities of the user application to implement a Tandem PROM solution.
MUXing Critical Inputs
Certain input ports to the core are multiplexed so that they are disabled during the stage 2 
configuration process. These MUXes are located in the top-level core file and are controlled 
by the user_app_rdy signal.
These inputs are held in a deasserted state while the stage 2 bitstream is loaded. This masks 
off any unwanted glitching due to the absence of stage 2 drivers and keeps the PCIe core in 
a valid state. When user_app_rdy is asserted, the MUXes are switched, and all interface 
signals behave as described in this document.
Tandem Completer 
In addition to receiving configuration request packets, the PCI Express endpoint might 
receive TLP requests that are not processed within the PCI Express hard block. Typical TLP 
requests received are Vendor Defined Messages and Read Requests. To avoid a lockup 
scenario within the PCI Express IP, TLP requests must be drained from the core to allow 
Configuration requests to be completed successfully. 
A completer module is implemented when a Tandem mode is selected to process these 
packets. A Tandem Fast PCIe Configuration (FPC) module is implemented to process these 
packets. All read requests are expected to be 1DW and a CPLD is returned with a payload of 
32’h0. All Vendor Defined Message requests are purged from the cores receive buffer and 
no further processing is performed. Each Memory Write request targeting BAR0 is 
processed by the FPC and assumed to be stage 2 bitstream data. The payload is forwarded 
to the ICAP. After the stage 2 bitstream is loaded and user_app_rdy asserted, the Tandem 
FPC module becomes inactive.
Tandem Configuration Logic
The core and example design contain ports (signals) specific to Tandem Configuration. 
These signals provide handshaking between stage 1 (the core) and stage 2 (user logic). 
Handshaking is necessary for interaction between the core and the user logic. Table 3-50 
defines the handshaking ports on the core.
Send Feedback
