7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
346
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Appendix B: Debugging
FPGA Configuration Time Debug
Device initialization and configuration issues can be caused by not having the FPGA 
configured fast enough to enter link training and be recognized by the system. Section 6.6 
of PCI Express Base Specification, rev. 2.1 [Ref 2] states two rules that might be impacted by 
FPGA Configuration Time:
•
A component must enter the LTSSM Detect state within 20 ms of the end of the 
Fundamental reset. 
•
A system must guarantee that all components intended to be software visible at boot 
time are ready to receive Configuration Requests within 100 ms of the end of 
Conventional Reset at the Root Complex.
These statements basically mean the FPGA must be configured within a certain finite time, 
and not meeting these requirements could cause problems with link training and device 
recognition.
Configuration can be accomplished using an onboard PROM or dynamically using JTAG. 
When using JTAG to configure the device, configuration typically occurs after the Chipset 
has enumerated each peripheral. After configuring the FPGA, a soft reset is required to 
restart enumeration and configuration of the device. A soft reset on a Windows based PC is 
performed by going to Start > Shut Down and then selecting Restart.
To eliminate FPGA configuration as a root cause, you should perform a soft restart of the 
system. Performing a soft reset on the system keeps power applied and forces 
re-enumeration of the device. If the device links up and is recognized after a soft reset is 
performed, then FPGA configuration is most likely the issue. Most typical systems use ATX 
power supplies which provide some margin on this 100 ms window as the power supply is 
normally valid before the 100 ms window starts. For more information on FPGA 
configuration, see FPGA Configuration in Chapter 3.
Link is Training Debug
Figure B-4 shows the flowchart for link trained debug.
Send Feedback
