7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
5
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 1
Overview
Xilinx® 7 series FPGAs include three unified FPGA families that are all designed for lowest 
power to enable a common design to scale across families for optimal power, performance, 
and cost. The Artix®-7 family is optimized for lowest cost and absolute power for the 
highest volume applications. The Virtex®-7 family is optimized for highest system 
performance and capacity. The Kintex®-7 family is an innovative class of FPGAs optimized 
for the best price to performance. This document describes the function and operation of 
the 7 Series FPGAs Integrated Block for PCI Express® core, including how to design, 
customize, and implement it. 
The 7 Series FPGAs Integrated Block for PCI Express core is a reliable, high-bandwidth, 
scalable serial interconnect building block. The core instantiates the 7 Series Integrated 
Block for PCI Express found in the 7 series FPGAs, and supports both Verilog and VHDL. This 
core simplifies the design process and reduces time to market. It is configurable for 
Endpoint and Root Port applications. This solution can be used in communication, 
multimedia, server and mobile platforms and enables applications such as high-end 
medical imaging, graphics intensive video games, DVD quality streaming video on the 
desktop, and 10 Gigabit Ethernet interface cards. 
Although the core is a fully verified solution, the challenge associated with implementing a 
complete design varies depending on the configuration and functionality of the 
application. 
RECOMMENDED: For the best results, previous experience building high-performance, pipelined FPGA 
designs using Xilinx implementation software and constraints files is recommended.
Feature Summary
The 7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe follows the PCI Express Base Specification, rev. 2.1 
[Ref 2] layering model, which consists of the Physical, Data Link, and Transaction Layers. The 
protocol uses packets to exchange information between layers. Packets are formed in the 
Transaction and Data Link Layers to carry information from the transmitting component to 
the receiving component. Necessary information is added to the packet being transmitted, 
which is required to handle the packet at specific layers. 
Send Feedback
