7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
352
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Appendix B: Debugging
Identifying Errors
Hardware symptoms of system lock up issues are indicated when the system hangs or a 
blue screen appears (PC systems). The PCI Express Base Specification, rev. 2.1 [Ref 2] requires 
that error detection be implemented at the receiver. A system lock up or hang is commonly 
the result of a Fatal Error and is reported in bit 2 of the receiver Device Status register. Using 
the Vivado Design Suite debug feature, monitor the core device status register to see if a 
fatal error is being reported.
A fatal error reported at the Root complex implies an issue on the transmit side of the EP. 
The Root Complex Device Status register can often times be seen using PCITree (Windows) 
or LSPCI (Linux). If a fatal error is detected, see the Transmit section. A Root Complex can 
often implement Advanced Error Reporting, which further distinguishes the type of error 
reported. AER provides valuable information as to why a certain error was flagged and is 
provided as an extended capability within a devices configuration space. Section 7.10 of the 
PCI Express Base Specification, rev. 2.1 provides more information on AER registers.
Transmit
Fatal Error Detected on Root or Link Partner
Check to make sure the TLP is correctly formed and that the payload (if one is attached) 
matches what is stated in the header length field. The Endpoints device status register does 
not report errors created by traffic on the transmit channel. 
These signals should be monitored on the Transmit interface to verify all traffic being 
initiated is correct. See Table 2-9 for signal descriptions.
•
user_lnk_up
•
s_axis_tx_tlast
•
s_axis_tx_tdata
•
s_axis_tx_trb
•
s_axis_tx_tvalid
•
s_axis_tx_tready
Fatal Error Not Detected
Ensure that the address provided in the TLP header is valid. The kernel mode driver attached 
to the device is responsible for obtaining the system resources allocated to the device. In a 
Bus Mastering design, the driver is also responsible for providing the application with a 
valid address range. System hangs or blue screens might occur if a TLP contains an address 
that does not target the designated address range for that device. 
Send Feedback
