7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
349
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Appendix B: Debugging
signals. The PCI Special Interest Group website provides other tools for ensuring the 
reference clocks are compliant to the requirements of the PCI Express Specification: 
www.pcisig.com/specifications/pciexpress/compliance/compliance_library 
Debugging PCI Configuration Space Parameters
Often, a user application fails to be recognized by the system, but the Xilinx PIO Example 
design works. In these cases, the user application is often using a PCI configuration space 
setting that is interfering with the system systems ability to recognize and allocate 
resources to the card.
Xilinx solutions for PCI Express handle all configuration transactions internally and generate 
the correct responses to incoming configuration requests. Chipsets have limits as to the 
amount of system resources it can allocate and the core must be configured to adhere to 
these limitations. 
The resources requested by the Endpoint are identified by the BAR settings within the 
Endpoint configuration space. You should verify that the resources requested in each BAR 
can be allocated by the chipset. I/O BARs are especially limited so configuring a large I/O 
BAR typically prevents the chipset from configuring the device. Generate a core that 
implements a small amount of memory (approximately 2 KB) to identify if this is the root 
cause.
The Class Code setting selected in the Vivado IDE can also affect configuration. The Class 
Code informs the Chipset as to what type of device the Endpoint is. Chipsets might expect 
a certain type of device to be plugged into the PCI Express slot and configuration might fail 
if it reads an unexpected Class Code. The BIOS could be configurable to work around this 
issue.
Use the PIO design with default settings to rule out any device allocation issues. The PIO 
design default settings have proven to work in all systems encountered when debugging 
problems. If the default settings allow the device to be recognized, then change the PIO 
design settings to match the intended user application by changing the PIO configuration 
in the Vivado IDE. Trial and error might be required to pinpoint the issue if a link analyzer is 
not available.
Using a link analyzer, it is possible to monitor the link traffic and possibly determine when 
during the enumeration and configuration process problems occur.
Send Feedback
