7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
199
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
See Tandem PROM for more information on meeting configuration requirements after 
reading this section.
This section contains these subsections:
•
Configuration Terminology: Defines terms used in this section.
•
Configuration Access Time: Several specification items govern when an Endpoint 
device needs to be ready to receive configuration accesses from the host (Root 
Complex). 
•
Board Power in Real-World Systems: Understanding real-world system constraints 
related to board power and how they affect the specification requirements. 
•
Recommendations: Describes methods for FPGA configuration and includes sample 
issue analysis for FPGA configuration timing issues.
Configuration Terminology
In this section, these terms are used to differentiate between FPGA configuration and 
configuration of the PCI Express® device:
•
Configuration of the FPGA. FPGA configuration is used.
•
Configuration of the PCI Express device. After the link is active, configuration is used.
Configuration Access Time
In standard systems for PCI Express, when the system is powered up, configuration software 
running on the processor starts scanning the PCI Express bus to discover the machine 
topology. 
The process of scanning the PCI Express hierarchy to determine its topology is referred to as 
the enumeration process. The root complex accomplishes this by initiating configuration 
transactions to devices as it traverses and determines the topology. 
All PCI Express devices are expected to have established the link with their link partner and 
be ready to accept configuration requests during the enumeration process. As a result, 
there are requirements as to when a device needs to be ready to accept configuration 
requests after power-up; if the requirements are not met, this occurs: 
•
If a device is not ready and does not respond to configuration requests, the root 
complex does not discover it and treats it as non-existent. 
•
The operating system does not report the existence of the device, and the user 
application is not able to communicate with the device. 
Choosing the appropriate FPGA configuration method is key to ensuring the device is able 
to communicate with the system in time to achieve link up and respond to the 
configuration accesses.
Send Feedback
