7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
235
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 4: Design Flow Steps
Link Layer Module
•
Override ACK/NAK Latency Timer: Checking this box enables you to override the 
ACK/NAK latency timer values set in the device. Using this feature can cause the ACK 
timeout values to be non-compliant to the PCI Express Base Specification, rev. 2.1 
[Ref 2]. This setting can be used to perform advanced debugging operations. 
CAUTION! Modify the default attributes only if directed by Xilinx Technical Support.
•
ACK Latency Timer Override Function: This setting determines how the override 
value is used by the device with respect to the ACK/NAK Latency Timer Value in the 
device. Options are “Absolute”, “Add”, and “Subtract”. The first two settings can cause 
the ACK timeout values to be non-compliant with the PCI Express Base Specification, rev. 
2.1.
•
ACK Latency Timer Override Value: This setting determines the ACK/NAK latency 
timer value used by the device depending on if the ACK Latency Timer Override 
Function enabled. The built-in table value depends on the Negotiated Link Width and 
Programmed MPS of the device.
•
Override Replay Timer: Checking this box enables you to override the replay timer 
values set in the device. Use of this feature could cause the replay timeout values to be 
non-compliant to the PCI Express Base Specification, rev. 2.1. This setting can be used to 
perform advanced debugging operations. 
CAUTION! Modify the default attributes only if directed by Xilinx Technical Support.
•
Replay Timer Override Function: This setting determines how the override value is 
used by the device with respect to the replay timer value in the device. Options are 
“Absolute”, “Add”, and “Subtract”. The first two settings can cause the replay timeout 
values to be non-compliant with the PCI Express Base Specification, rev. 2.1.
•
Replay Timer Override Value: This setting determines the replay timer value used by 
the device depending on if the Replay Timer Override Function enabled. The built-in 
table value depends on the Negotiated Link Width and Programmed MPS of the device. 
IMPORTANT: You must ensure that the final timeout value does not overflow the 15-bit timeout value.
Advanced Physical Layer
•
Enable Lane Reversal: When checked, enables the Lane Reversal feature.
•
Force No Scrambling: Used for diagnostic purposes only and should never be enabled 
in a working design. Setting this bit results in the data scramblers being turned off so 
that the serial data stream can be analyzed.
•
Upconfigure Capable: When unchecked, the port is advertised as “Not Upconfigure 
Capable” during Link Training.
Send Feedback
