7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
249
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 4: Design Flow Steps
By default, the IP core-level constraints lock block RAMs, transceivers, and the PCIe block to 
the recommended location. To relocate these blocks, you must override the constraints for 
these blocks in the XDC constraint file. To do so: 
1.
Copy the constraints for the block that needs to be overwritten from the core-level XDC 
constraint file.
2.
Place the constraints in the user XDC constraint file.
3.
Update the constraints with the new location. 
The user XDC constraints are usually scoped to the top-level of the design; therefore, you 
must ensure that the cells referred by the constraints are still valid after copying and 
pasting them. Typically, you need to update the module path with the full hierarchy name.
Note: If there are locations that need to be swapped (i.e., the new location is currently being 
occupied by another module), there are two ways to do this.
•
If there is a temporary location available, move the first module out of the way to a 
new temporary location first. Then, move the second module to the location that was 
occupied by the first module. Then, move the first module to the location of the 
second module. These steps can be done in XDC constraint file.
•
If there is no other location available to be used as a temporary location, use the 
reset_property command from Tcl command window on the first module before 
relocating the second module to this location. The reset_property command 
cannot be done in XDC constraint file and must be called from the Tcl command file or 
typed directly into the Tcl Console.
Available Integrated Blocks for PCIe
Virtex®-7 FPGAs contain multiple blocks. Table 4-6 lists which blocks are available for use in 
these FPGAs. Kintex®-7 and Artix®-7 devices only contain one block. In some Virtex-7 
family cases, not all blocks can be targeted due to the lack of bonded transceivers sites 
adjacent to the Integrated Block. The Integrated Blocks in FPGAs listed in Table 4-6 only 
support operations up to Gen2 (5.0 GT/s) speeds. For Gen 3 (8.0 GT/s) operation, see 
Virtex-7 FPGA Gen3 Integrated Block for PCI Express Product Guide (PG023) [Ref 4].
Note: The PCIe hard blocks in a device are only usable if the GTs are bonded in the package you 
select. For example with a CSG324 package using an XC7A35T device, the PCIe hard block in the 
device is not usable because GTs are not bonded in CSG324 package.
Send Feedback
