7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
203
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
Again, the FPGA configuration time equation is:
FPGA Configuration Time ≤ TPWRVLD + 100 ms
Equation 3-3
TPWRVLD is defined as PWR_OK delay period; that is, TPWRVLD represents the amount of time 
that power is valid in the system before PWR_OK is asserted. This time can be added to the 
amount of time the FPGA has to configure. The minimum values of T2 and T4 are negligible 
and considered zero for purposes of these calculations. For ATX-based motherboards, 
which represent the majority of real-world motherboards in use, TPWRVLD can be defined as:
100 ms ≤ TPWRVLD ≤ 500 ms
Equation 3-4
This provides these requirements for FPGA configuration time in both ATX and 
non-ATX-based motherboards:
•
FPGA Configuration Time ≤ 200 ms (for ATX based motherboard)
•
FPGA Configuration Time ≤ 100 ms (for non-ATX based motherboard)
The second equation for the non-ATX based motherboards assumes a TPWRVLD value of 
0 ms because it is not defined in this context. Designers with non-ATX based motherboards 
should evaluate their own power supply design to obtain a value for TPWRVLD.
This section assumes that the FPGA power (VCCINT) is stable before or at the same time that 
PWR_OK is asserted. If this is not the case, then additional time must be subtracted from the 
available time for FPGA configuration. 
IMPORTANT: Avoid designing add-in cards with staggered voltage regulators with long delays.
Hot Plug Systems
Hot Plug systems generally employ the use of a Hot-Plug Power Controller located on the 
system motherboard. Many discrete Hot-Plug Power Controllers extend TPVPERL beyond the 
minimum 100 ms. Add-in card designers should consult the Hot-Plug Power Controller data 
sheet to determine the value of TPVPERL. If the Hot-Plug Power Controller is unknown, then 
a TPVPERL value of 100 ms should be assumed.
Recommendations
In addition, an external clock source can be supplied to the external master configuration 
clock (EMCCLK) pin to ensure a consistent configuration clock frequency for all conditions. 
See 7 Series FPGAs Configuration User Guide (UG470) [Ref 7] for descriptions of the BPI 
configuration mode and EMCCLK pin. This section discusses these recommendations and 
includes sample analysis of potential issues that might arise during FPGA configuration.
Send Feedback
