7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
228
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 4: Design Flow Steps
•
Device Specific Initialization: This bit indicates whether special initialization of this 
function is required (beyond the standard PCI configuration header) before the generic 
class device driver is able to use it. When selected, this option indicates that the 
function requires a device specific initialization sequence following transition to the D0 
uninitialized state. See section 3.2.3 of the PCI Bus Power Management Interface 
Specification Revision 1.2 [Ref 2].
•
D1 Support: When selected, this option indicates that the function supports the D1 
Power Management State. See section 3.2.3 of the PCI Bus Power Management Interface 
Specification Revision 1.2.
•
D2 Support: When selected, this option indicates that the function supports the D2 
Power Management State. See section 3.2.3 of the PCI Bus Power Management Interface 
Specification Revision 1.2.
•
PME Support From: When this option is selected, it indicates the power states in which 
the function can assert cfg_pm_wake. See section 3.2.3 of the PCI Bus Power 
Management Interface Specification Revision 1.2.
•
No Soft Reset: Checking this box indicates that if the device transitions from D3hot to 
D0 because of a Power State Command, it does not perform an internal reset and 
Configuration context is preserved. Disabling this option is not supported.
Power Consumption
The 7 Series FPGAs Integrated Block for PCI Express always reports a power budget of 0W. 
For information about power consumption, see section 3.2.6 of the PCI Bus Power 
Management Interface Specification Revision 1.2.
Power Dissipated
The 7 Series FPGAs Integrated Block for PCI Express always reports a power dissipation of 
0W. For information about power dissipation, see section 3.2.6 of the PCI Bus Power 
Management Interface Specification Revision 1.2.
Extended Capabilities
The PCIe Extended Capabilities page shown in Figure 4-12 is available in Advanced mode 
only, and includes settings for Device Serial Number Capability, Virtual Channel Capability, 
Vendor Specific Capability, and optional user-defined Configuration capabilities.
Send Feedback
