7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
310
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 6: Test Benches
Output Logging
When a test fails on the example or customer design, the test programmer debugs the 
offending test case. Typically, the test programmer inspects the wave file for the simulation 
and cross-reference this to the messages displayed on the standard output. Because this 
approach can be very time consuming, the Root Port Model offers an output logging 
mechanism to assist the tester with debugging failing test cases to speed the process. 
The Root Port Model creates three output log files during each simulation run. 
•
rx.dat and tx.dat: These log files each contain a detailed record of every TLP that 
was received and transmitted, respectively, by the Root Port Model. When you 
understand the expected TLP transmission during a specific test case, you can more 
easily isolate the failure. 
•
error.dat: This log file is used in conjunction with the expectation tasks. Test 
programs that use the expectation tasks generate a general error message to standard 
output. Detailed information about the specific comparison failures that have occurred 
due to the expectation error is located within error.dat.
Parallel Test Programs
There are two classes of tests supported by the Root Port Model: 
•
Sequential tests: Tests that exist within one process and behave similarly to sequential 
programs. The test depicted in Test Program: pio_writeReadBack_test0 is an example of 
a sequential test. Sequential tests are very useful when verifying behavior that have 
events with a known order. 
sample_smoke_test1
Verilog
Performs the same operation as sample_smoke_test0 but makes use of 
expectation tasks. This test uses two separate test program threads: 
• the first thread issues the PCI Type 0 Configuration Read TLP, and 
• the second thread issues the Completion with Data TLP expectation 
task. 
This test illustrates the form for a parallel test that uses expectation 
tasks. This test form enables for you to confirm the receipt of any TLPs 
from your design. Additionally, this method can be used to confirm 
reception of TLPs when ordering is unimportant. 
pio_writeReadBack_test0
Verilog and 
VHDL
Performs a check for the expected Device/Vendor ID, Link Speed, and 
Link Width value. Performs Endpoint enumeration (scan and program 
BARs, and set PCIe configuration registers. Issues Memory/IO Write 
and Read packets depending on the BAR type enabled (IO, Memory 
32-bit, or Memory 64-bit) and checks that the written value can be 
read back successfully.
Table 6-1:
Root Port Model Provided Tests (Cont’d)
Test Name
Test in
VHDL/Verilog
Description
Send Feedback
