7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
350
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Appendix B: Debugging
Application Requirements
During enumeration, it is possible for the chipset to issue transaction layer packet (TLP) 
traffic that is passed from the core to the backend application. A common oversight when 
designing custom backend applications is to not have logic which handles every type 
incoming request. As a result, no response is created and problems arise. The PIO design 
has the necessary backend functions to respond correctly to any incoming request. It is the 
responsibility of the application to generate the correct response. These packet types are 
presented to the application:
•
Requests targeting the Expansion ROM (if enabled)
•
Message TLPs
•
Memory or I/O requests targeting a BAR
•
All completion packets
The PIO design, can be used to rule out any of these types of concerns, as the PIO design 
responds to all incoming transactions to the user application in some way to ensure the 
host receives the proper response allowing the system to progress. If the PIO design works, 
but the custom application does not, some transaction is not being handled properly. 
The Vivado Design Suite debug feature should be implemented on the wrapper Receive 
AXI4-Stream interface to identify if requests targeting the backend application are drained 
and completed successfully. The AXI4-Stream interface signals that should be probed in the 
debug feature are defined in Table B-1.
Using a Link Analyzer to Debug Device Recognition Issues
In cases where the link is up (user_lnk_up = 1), but the device is not recognized by the 
system, a link analyzer can help solve the issue. It is likely the FPGA is not responding 
properly to some type of access. The link view can be used to analyze the traffic and see if 
anything looks out of place. 
To focus on the issue, it might be necessary to try different triggers. Here are some trigger 
examples:
•
Trigger on the first INIT_FC1 and/or UPDATE_FC in either direction. This allows the 
analyzer to begin capture after link up. 
•
The first TLP normally transmitted to an Endpoint is the Set Slot Power Limit Message. 
This usually occurs before Configuration traffic begins. This might be a good trigger 
point.
•
Trigger on Configuration TLPs.
•
Trigger on Memory Read or Memory Write TLPs.
Send Feedback
