7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
98
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
•
Receive Credits Limit: fc_sel[2:0] = 001b
Receive Credits Limit shows the credits granted to the link partner. The fc_* values are 
initialized with the values advertised by the integrated block during Flow Control 
initialization and are updated as a cumulative count as TLPs are read out of the 
Transaction Layer receive buffers through the AXI4-Stream interface. This value is 
referred to as CREDITS_ALLOCATED within the PCI Express Base Specification.
In the case where infinite credits have been advertised for a specific credit pool, the 
Receive Buffer Credits Limit for that pool always indicates zero credits.
•
Receive Credits Consumed: fc_sel[2:0] = 010b
Receive Buffer Credits Consumed shows the credits consumed by the link partner (and 
received by the integrated block). The initial fc_* values are always zero and are 
updated as a cumulative count, as packets are received by the Transaction Layers receive 
buffers. This value is referred to as CREDITS_RECEIVED in the PCI Express Base 
Specification.
Transmit Credit Flow Control Information
Transmit Credit Flow Control Information can be obtained by setting fc_sel[2:0] to 
100b, 101b, or 110b. The Transmit Credit Flow Control information indicates the current 
status of the receive buffers within the Link Partner. 
•
Transmit Credits Available Space: fc_sel[2:0] = 100b 
Transmit Credits Available Space indicates the available credit space within the receive 
buffers of the Link Partner for each credit pool. If space available for any of the credit 
pools is exhausted, the corresponding fc_* signal indicates a value of zero or negative. 
Transmit Credits Available Space returns to its initial values after the integrated block 
has successfully sent all TLPs to the Link Partner.
If the value is negative, more header or data has been written into the local transmit 
buffers of the integrated block than the Link Partner can currently consume. Because the 
block does not allow posted packets to pass completions, a posted packet that is written 
is not transmitted if there is a completion ahead of it waiting for credits (as indicated by 
a zero or negative value). Similarly, a completion that is written is not transmitted if a 
posted packet is ahead of it waiting for credits. The user application can monitor the 
Transmit Credits Available Space to ensure that these temporary blocking conditions do 
not occur, and that the bandwidth of the PCI Express Link is fully utilized by only writing 
packets to the integrated block that have sufficient space within the Receive buffer of 
the Link Partner. Non-Posted packets can always be bypassed within the integrated 
block; so, any Posted or Completion packet written passes Non-Posted packets waiting 
for credits. 
Send Feedback
