7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
193
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
•
userclk: 62.5 MHz/125 MHz/250 MHz clock, depending on selected PCIe core lane 
width, link speed, and AXI interface width.
•
userclk2: 250 MHz/500 MHz clock, depending on selected PCIe core link speed.
•
oobclk: 50 MHz clock.
The other cores/logic present in the user design can use any of the MMCM outputs listed 
above.
The MMCM instantiated in the PCIe example design has two unconnected outputs: 
CLKOUT5, and CLKOUT6. These outputs can be used to generate other desired clock 
frequencies by selecting the appropriate CLKOUT5_DIVIDE and CLKOUT6_DIVIDE 
parameters for MMCM. 
TIP: Sharing the MMCM between PCIe and other cores in your design saves FPGA resources and eases 
output clock path routing.
Limitations
•
Reference clock input to MMCM is restricted to 100 MHz in most use cases.
°
There is an option for selecting a reference clock of 125 MHz or 250 MHz, which is 
not a common use case. 
•
The MMCM reset is tied to a static value in the top module. The MMCM can be reset as 
required by the system design. The MMCM reset can be asserted only after reference 
clock is recovered and is stable. Also, MMCM reset is indirectly tied to the PCIe core 
reset and asserting MMCM reset resets the PCIe core.
•
Userclk1 and Userclk2 outputs are selected based on the PCIe Lane Width, Link 
Speed, and AXI width selections (for details, see Chapter 4, Customizing and 
Generating the Core). Sharing cores must comply with these requirements. 
Shared GT_COMMON
To use the shared GT_COMMON instances, select the Include Shared Logic (Transceiver 
GT_COMMON) in example design option in the Shared Logic tab (Figure 3-88). 
When this feature is selected, the GT_COMMON instance is removed from the pipe 
wrappers and is moved into the support wrapper of the example design. It also brings out 
additional ports to the top level to enable sharing of the GT_COMMON. 
Shared logic feature for GT_COMMON helps save FPGA resources and also eases dedicated 
clock routing within the single GT quad.
Send Feedback
