7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
94
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
For example, if the Capability Max Payload Size selected for the Endpoint core is 256 bytes, 
and the performance level selected is high, there are 29 total transmit buffers. Each of these 
buffers can hold at a maximum one 64-bit Memory Write Request (4-DWORD header) plus 
256 bytes of data (64 DWORDs) plus TLP Digest (one DWORD) for a total of 69 DWORDs. 
This example assumes the root complex sets the MAX_PAYLOAD_SIZE register of the Device 
Control register to 256 bytes, which is the maximum capability advertised by this core. For 
this reason, at any given time, this core could have 29 of these 69 DWORD TLPs waiting for 
transmittal. There is no sharing of buffers among multiple TLPs, so even if user is sending 
smaller TLPs such as 32-bit Memory Read request with no TLP Digest totaling three 
DWORDs only per TLP, each transmit buffer still holds only one TLP at any time.
The internal transmit buffers are shared between the user application and the configuration 
management module (CMM) of the core. Because of this, the tx_buf_av bus can fluctuate 
even if the user application is not transmitting packets. The CMM generates completion 
TLPs in response to configuration reads or writes, interrupt TLPs at the request of the user 
application, and message TLPs when needed.
The Transmit Buffers Available indication enables the user application to completely utilize 
the PCI transaction ordering feature of the core transmitter. The transaction ordering rules 
allow for Posted and Completion TLPs to bypass Non-Posted TLPs. See section 2.4 of the 
PCI Express Base Specification [Ref 2] for more information about ordering rules.
The core supports the transaction ordering rules and promotes Posted and Completion 
packets ahead of blocked Non-Posted TLPs. Non-Posted TLPs can become blocked if the 
link partner is in a state where it momentarily has no Non-Posted receive buffers available, 
which it advertises through Flow Control updates. In this case, the core promotes 
Completion and Posted TLPs ahead of these blocked Non-Posted TLPs. However, this can 
only occur if the Completion or Posted TLP has been loaded into the core by the user 
application. By monitoring the tx_buf_av bus, the user application can ensure there is at 
least one free buffer available for any Completion or Posted TLP. Promotion of Completion 
and Posted TLPs only occurs when Non-Posted TLPs are blocked; otherwise packets are sent 
on the link in the order they are received from the user application.
Receiver Flow Control Credits Available
The core provides the user application information about the state of the receiver buffer 
pool queues. This information represents the current space available for the Posted, 
Non-Posted, and Completion queues.
One Header Credit is equal to either a 3- or 4-DWORD TLP Header and one Data Credit is 
equal to 16 bytes of payload data. Table 3-14 provides values on credits available 
immediately after user_lnk_up assertion but before the reception of any TLP. If space 
available for any of the above categories is exhausted, the corresponding credit available 
signals indicate a value of zero. Credits available return to initial values after the receiver has 
drained all TLPs.
Send Feedback
