7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
67
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 3: Designing with the Core
IMPORTANT: Packets sent to the core for transmission must follow the formatting rules for transaction 
layer packets (TLPs) as specified in Chapter 2 of the PCI Express Base Specification. 
The user application is responsible for ensuring the validity of the packets. The core does 
not check that a packet is correctly formed and this can result in transferring a malformed 
TLP. The exact fields of a given TLP vary depending on the type of packet being transmitted.
Transmitting Outbound Packets
Basic TLP Transmit Operation
The 7 Series FPGAs Integrated Block for PCI Express core automatically transmits these 
types of packets:
•
Completions to a remote device in response to Configuration Space requests.
•
Error-message responses to inbound requests that are malformed or unrecognized by 
the core.
Note: Certain unrecognized requests, for example, unexpected completions, can only be 
detected by the user application, which is responsible for generating the appropriate response.
The user application is responsible for constructing these types of outbound packets:
•
Memory, Atomic Ops, and I/O Requests to remote devices.
•
Completions in response to requests to the user application, for example, a Memory 
Read Request.
When configured as an Endpoint, the core notifies the user application of pending 
internally generated TLPs that arbitrate for the transmit datapath by asserting 
tx_cfg_req (1b). The user application can choose to give priority to core-generated 
TLPs by asserting tx_cfg_gnt (1b) permanently, without regard to tx_cfg_req. 
Doing so prevents User-Application-generated TLPs from being transmitted when a 
core-generated TLP is pending. Alternatively, the user application can reserve priority 
for a user application-generated TLP over core-generated TLPs, by deasserting 
tx_cfg_gnt (0b) until the transaction is complete. After the transaction is complete, 
the user application can assert tx_cfg_gnt (1b) for at least one clock cycle to allow 
the pending core-generated TLP to be transmitted. You must not delay asserting 
tx_cfg_gnt indefinitely, because this might cause a completion timeout in the 
Requester. See the PCI Express Base Specification for more information on the 
Completion Timeout Mechanism.
•
The integrated block does not do any filtering on the Base/Limit registers (Root Port 
only). You are responsible for determining if filtering is required. These registers can be 
read out of the Type 1 Configuration Header space through the Configuration interface 
(see Designing with Configuration Space Registers and Configuration Interface).
Send Feedback
