7 Series Integrated Block for PCIe v3.3
274
PG054 December 23, 2022
www.xilinx.com
Chapter 5: Example Design
The PIO design processes a Memory or I/O Write TLP with one DWORD payload by 
updating the payload into the target address in the FPGA block RAM space. 
Base Address Register Support
The PIO design supports four discrete target spaces, each consisting of a 2 KB block of 
memory represented by a separate Base Address Register (BAR). Using the default 
parameters, the Vivado IDE produces a core configured to work with the PIO design that 
consists of: 
•
One 64-bit addressable Memory Space BAR
•
One 32-bit Addressable Memory Space BAR
You can change the default parameters used by the PIO design; however, in some cases you 
might need to change the user application depending on your system. See Changing the 
Default BAR Settings for information about changing the default parameters and the effect 
on the PIO design. 
Each of the four 2 KB address spaces represented by the BARs corresponds to one of four 
2 KB address regions in the PIO design. Each 2 KB region is implemented using a 2 KB 
dual-port block RAM. As transactions are received by the core, the core decodes the 
address and determines which of the four regions is being targeted. The core presents the 
TLP to the PIO design and asserts the appropriate bits of (rx_bar_hit[7:0]) 
m_axis_rx_tuser[9:2], as defined in Table 5-1.
Changing the Default BAR Settings
You can change the parameters and continue to use the PIO design to create customized 
Verilog or VHDL source to match the selected BAR settings. However, because the PIO 
design parameters are more limited than the core parameters, consider these example 
design limitations when changing the default parameters:
•
The example design supports one I/O space BAR, one 32-bit Memory space (that 
cannot be the Expansion ROM space), and one 64-bit Memory space. If these limits are 
exceeded, only the first space of a given type is active—accesses to the other spaces do 
not result in completions.
Table 5-1:
TLP Traffic Types
Block RAM
TLP Transaction Type
Default BAR
rx_bar_hit[7:0]
ep_mem0
I/O TLP transactions
Disabled
Disabled
ep_mem1
32-bit address Memory TLP transactions
0
0000_0001b
ep_mem2
64-bit address Memory TLP transactions
Disabled
Disabled
ep_mem3
32-bit address Memory TLP transactions 
destined for EROM
Expansion ROM
0100_0000b
Send Feedback
