IOMMU Overview
47
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
the physical page to which this descriptor points has been written to by a peripheral. 
The A bit in the guest page table is set to 1 by the IOMMU the first time the descriptor or the physical 
page is either read from or written to. The D bit in the guest page table is set to 1 by the IOMMU the 
first time a device writes to the physical page or the descriptor is accessed for an intended write to the 
corresponding physical page. 
Optionally IOMMU hardware can set A and D bit in the host page table (see IOMMU Extended Fea-
ture Register [MMIO Offset 0030h] HASup and HDSup). When enabled the IOMMU will set A and 
D bits to host page table in process similar to that described in Section 2.2.7.4.
Note that IOMMU hardware never clears A or D bits.
System software can use the A bits to help decide to choose candidate pages for page out. D bits can 
be used to avoid redundant write-backs to storage. 
1.3.9
Guest I/O Protection
Optionally the IOMMU enables Guest I/O protection even for devices that do not support PASID 
[Refer to Section 2.2.9]. When enabled, a default PASID equal to 0 is assigned to DMA requests 
without PASID associated with the enabled DTE. The DMA requests then go through guest and 
nested translations as usual. Operating systems can use this feature to enable I/O protection buffers 
using guest page table for devices that may not support PASID. 
1.3.10
SMI Filter
The IOMMU optionally supports the interception of System Management Interrupts (SMI) that are 
unexpected by system firmware or software. SMIs that are vital to system operation and integrity are 
delivered as usual but SMIs from suspect sources can be blocked or deferred for later processing or 
analysis. See Section 2.1.5 “System Management Interrupt (SMI) Controls”  for details of SMI filter 
operation.
1.3.11
Hardware Error Registers
All error events are reported in the IOMMU event log. Optionally, error reporting is enhanced by log-
ging critical events in the hardware error registers. See IOMMU Hardware Event Upper Register 
[MMIO Offset 0040h], IOMMU Hardware Event Lower Register [MMIO Offset 0048h], and 
IOMMU Hardware Event Status Register [MMIO Offset 0050h].
1.3.12
Hardware Accelerated Virtualized IOMMU (vIOMMU)
The IOMMU may optionally support the vIOMMU feature which provides partial hardware accelera-
tion when implementing Guest IOMMUs. Guest IOMMUs are IOMMUs exposed to VMs. vIOMMU 
provides acceleration when a VM accesses its Command Buffer, PPR Log, and Event Log. This elim-
inates the CPU overhead needed for the supporting HV intercepts and reduces the latency of these 
operations.
The HV continues to emulate the IOMMU configuration space registers and a subset of the IOMMU 
MMIO registers which are primarily used during initialization. Additionally, the HV must initialize 
the vIOMMU feature, map MMIO resources between the VMs and the IOMMU, manage additional 
[AMD Public Use]
