Registers
205
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
3 Registers
The IOMMU is configured and controlled via two sets of registers—one in the PCI configuration 
space and another set mapped in system address space. Since the IOMMU appears as a PCI function, 
it has a capability block in the PCI configuration space. 
IOMMU registers not defined in this chapter are reserved. Software should not write reserved register 
locations and must not rely on the value returned by hardware if a reserved register is read. Bit ranges 
within writeable registers that are designated as Reserved should always be written as all zeros. When 
read, software must not rely on the value returned in that bit range.
3.1 PCI Resources
The IOMMU is implemented as an independent PCI Function. Any PCI Function containing an 
IOMMU capability block cannot be used for any purpose other than containing an IOMMU. A PCI 
Function containing an IOMMU capability block does not include PCI BAR registers. Configuration 
and status information for the IOMMU are mapped into PCI configuration space using a PCI capabil-
ity block. 
A peripheral may implement more than one IOMMU within a single Function. One or more IOMMU 
capability blocks may be implemented in a PCIe® Function.
If a single IOMMU capability block is implemented in a PCI Function, the IOMMU may support 
either MSI or MSI-X or both. If more than one IOMMU capability block is implemented in a Func-
tion, the IOMMU must support generating MSI-X interrupts. The Function must assign a distinct 
interrupt vector to each interrupt that can be generated by each IOMMU capability block. 
The base functionality of the IOMMU supports one interrupt which is used report Event Log excep-
tions and CommWait Completions. If this interrupt is enabled, the field Capability Offset 10h[Msi-
Num] must be written with the appropriate MSI/MSI-X vector. If PPR logging and GA logging are 
supported, two more interrupt sources are provided to signal PPR and GA logging exceptions. If the 
PPR log interrupt is to be enabled, a vector for it must be first set up for it in Capability Offset 
10h[MsiNumPPR]. If the GA log interrupt is to be enabled, a vector for it must be first set up in Capa-
bility Offset 10h[MsiNumGA]. 
The PCI class is System Base Peripheral (08h) with a subclass of IOMMU (06h) and a programming 
interface code of 00h, as issued by the PCI-SIG.
The HyperTransportTM UnitID used when an IOMMU generates requests must not be used for any 
other traffic. A HyperTransportTM UnitID can be shared by multiple IOMMUs within a physical com-
ponent.
3.1.1 Accessing MSI Capability Block Registers
Optionally, specific fields of the MSI capability registers are mapped to MMIO space by IOMMU 
hardware. When this capability is supported these registers can be accessed either through configura-
tion space reads and writes or via memory reads and writes. However, in some cases field write capa-
bility varies between configuration space and MMIO space access. See Section 3.4.8.
[AMD Public Use]
