46
IOMMU Overview
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
that caused an insufficient-privilege check and obtain a fresh translation using ATS are described in 
Section 2.1.4.8 “Discarding Device IOTLB Information to Rewalk Page Tables” . 
1.3.5
Peripheral Page Request Support Compatible with PCI-SIG PRI
IOMMU optionally supports the PCI-SIG PRI specification as a complement to PCI-SIG Address 
Translation Service (ATS) specification (see Section 2.1.1 “Normal Operation” ). The IOMMU sup-
port for PRI is called peripheral page request (PPR) logging (see Section 2.6 “Peripheral Page 
Request (PPR) Logging” ). 
The operating system is usually required to pin memory pages used for I/O; the pinned pages are 
often allocated from a separate memory pool of limited capacity. ATS and PRI can be used together to 
enable the peripheral to use unpinned pages for I/O. When processing ATS requests, the IOMMU 
does not signal events when insufficient access privileges or not-present pages are detected; instead it 
returns the permissions calculated from the page tables. The peripheral examines the response to 
determine an appropriate action (e.g., use PRI to request system software to service a page table 
entry). Use of PRI/PPR allows a peripheral to request the operating system to change the access priv-
ileges of the page or request the page to be made present in the memory (it was not present). Use of 
ATS with PRI/PPR can allow a system to operate efficiently under low available memory.
1.3.6
Selecting Translation Tables in a Memory Transaction
In the base capabilities of the IOMMU, a PCIe packet contains a GPA and the originating BDF is 
used to select GPA-to-SPA translation tables. A PCI-SIG TLP prefix is not interpreted by the 
IOMMU. 
An optional feature adds support for translating guest virtual addresses to system physical addresses 
using the page tables programmed by the guest operating system. The PCI-SIG defines a method to 
add information to a transaction called the TLP prefix.  When a PCIe transaction has a PASID TLP 
prefix, the packet contains a canonical GVA and the TLP prefix selects the guest tables for GVA-to-
GPA translation; when a PCIe transaction has no TLP prefix, the packet contains a GPA. The originat-
ing BDF is used to select GPA-to-SPA translation tables. Details are in Section 2.2.7.7 “PCIe® TLP 
PASID Prefix” .
1.3.7
AMD64 Interrupt Virtualization(Guest Virtual APIC Interrupt Controller)
The IOMMU optionally supports interrupt virtualization . Device interrupts can be delivered directly 
to running guest virtual machines without hypervisor intervention when interrupts are virtualized (see 
MMIO Offset 0030h[GASup] and MMIO Offset 0018h[GAEn]). This can reduce the delivery latency 
and overhead of guest VM interrupts. This feature requires compatible APIC virtualization support in 
the processor. The processor and the IOMMU coordinate to maintain interrupt state in the Guest Vir-
tual APIC Table when delivering interrupts. Interrupt remapping and interrupt virtualization may be 
enabled independently. See details in Section 2.2.8 “Guest Virtual APIC Table for Interrupt Virtual-
ization” . 
1.3.8
Enhanced Support for Access and Dirty Bits
Access bit (A) in page descriptor indicates whether the physical page to which the descriptor points to 
has been accessed. Dirty bit (D) in a page descriptor indicates whether the page-translation table or 
[AMD Public Use]
