29
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
Bit Attributes
All bit attributes used in this specification are defined in Table 1. These attributes apply to register 
definitions, Device Table entries, page table entries, Command Buffer entries and Event Log entries.
Related Documents
•
AMD64 Architecture Programmer’s Manual, Volume 1: Application Programming, order# 24592 
(APM1)
•
AMD64 Architecture Programmer’s Manual, Volume 2: System Programming, order# 24593 
(APM2)
•
AMD64 Architecture Programmer’s Manual, Volume 3: General-Purpose and System 
Instructions, order# 24594 (APM3)
•
AMD64 Architecture Programmer’s Manual, Volume 4: 128-Bit and 256-Bit Media Instructions, 
order# 26568 (APM4)
Table 1: Bit Attribute Definitions
Attribute
Description
HwInit
Hardware Initialized: Register fields are initialized by firmware or hardware mecha-
nisms such as pin strapping or serial EEPROM. Fields are read-only after initialization 
and can only be reset (or write-once by firmware) with a cold reset.
Ignored
Ign
Ignored or Ign: For an IOMMU register, the state of the field is ignored by the IOMMU, 
writes may be discarded and reads return undefined results. For a memory location, the 
contents of the field is ignored by the IOMMU when read, but the value is preserved 
when the memory location is written by the IOMMU. Note that some ignored fields may 
be used by other system components (e.g., a memory field in a page table entry that is 
ignored by the IOMMU may be used by the processor).
RO
Read-only register: Register fields are read-only and cannot be altered by software.
RW
Read-Write register: Register fields are read-write and may be either set or cleared by 
software to the desired state.
RW1C
Read-only status, Write-1-to-clear status register: Register bits indicate status when 
read, a set bit indicating a status event may be cleared by writing a 1. Writing a 0 to 
RW1C bits has no effect.
RW1S
Write-1-to-set register: Register bits indicate status of an operation when read, setting 
the bit initiates the operation. Hardware clears the bit when the operation completes. 
Writing a 0 to RW1S bits has no effect.
Reserved
Resv
Res
Reserved, Resv, or Res: Reserved for future implementations. Reserved fields in a regis-
ter must be implemented as read-only zero. Reserved fields in a memory location must be 
zero.
Unused
Un
Unused or Un: Field is not used by hardware. Software is allowed to use the field for its 
own purposes.
[AMD Public Use]
