Implementation Considerations
287
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
plete, regardless of the completion status of other non-posted traffic in the fabric. The IOMMU also 
requires that the host bridge process its requests without spawning any requests to other devices. In 
other words, the IOMMU’s table structures must be located solely in system memory.
The IOMMU can share its virtual channel with other traffic as long the other traffic is also guaranteed 
to make forward progress. In practice, this means that any other devices sharing the IOMMU’s page 
walk channel must also restrict their non-posted traffic solely to accessing system memory. 
To allow the IOMMU to support different AMD processors with different isochronous capabilities 
the IOMMU control registers contain bits that control the state of the PassPW bits, the coherent bit 
and the isochronous bit in the HyperTransportTM link read request issued by the IOMMU. 
4.4 Chipset Specific Implementation Issues
Chipsets that implement both an IOMMU and a legacy PCI or AGP bridge must provide source iden-
tification to identify uniquely DMA traffic as originating from the PCI or AGP bus.To provide this 
identification, the IOMMU must use the requesterID of the PCI or AGP bridge to perform transla-
tions for DMA transactions from the legacy bus. The Device legacy ID information must be reported 
via appropriate ACPI or Device Tree table entries. Details are in Section 5.2.2, “I/O Virtualization 
Definition Blocks” on page 292.
4.5 Software and Platform Firmware Implementation Issues
Because of the flexible architecture of the IOMMU, it is unlikely that any single system software 
implementation uses all the features, topologies, or options. The following constraints are strongly 
recommended:
•
An IOMMU should be a root-complex device (i.e., appear directly on the bus at the top of the PCI 
tree hierarchy).
•
Some system software may prohibit an IOMMU from appearing under a PCI-to-PCI bridge. 
•
To ensure the IOMMU is recognized and configured properly, the platform firmware should 
perform the initial configuration of the IOMMU so that it is accessible to system software when 
control is handed off by the platform firmware.
•
The platform firmware should describe the IOMMU in an ACPI table as defined in Chapter 5, 
"I/O Virtualization ACPI Table". The table must include all information necessary to identify, 
configure, and access the IOMMU. It is recommended that System software retrieves IOMMU 
hardware information from ACPI and Firmware tables, in descending order of priority from 
Type11h table, if not available to Type10h IVHD tables, finally evaluating IOMMU MMIO 
feature registers if no other property is available or accessible. 
•
System firmware must ensure the IOMMU configuration is preserved or restored across power-
management state changes.
[AMD Public Use]
