36
IOMMU Overview
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
I/O devices in the guest that need to see exactly the same I/O page translations can share a DomainID 
(see “Data Structures” on page 58). If all the I/O devices belonging to a given VM guest are assigned 
to the same domain then the IOMMU can share translation cache entries among any of the guest’s I/O 
devices.
Finally, guest I/O throughput is often significantly enhanced when guest memory is allocated using 
large pages on the host system. Then the I/O page tables can similarly use large pages and the 
IOMMU is more likely to avoid thrashing in its translation cache.
1.2.6
Virtualizing the IOMMU
The IOMMU has been designed so that it can be emulated in software by a HV that wishes to present 
its VM guests the illusion that they have an IOMMU.
HVs that run non-VM-aware guests already intercept and emulate attempts by their guests to access 
PCI configuration space. Therefore, emulation of the IOMMU configuration registers is straightfor-
ward; the emulation can be hooked directly to the existing facilities of the HV for intercepting PCI 
configuration space accesses.
The HV must also arrange to intercept and emulate guest accesses to the IOMMU's MMIO-mapped 
command registers. Since the overhead of each HV intercept is high, guest operating systems access-
ing the IOMMU have better performance when they enqueue batches of commands in the IOMMU's 
Command Buffer located in system memory prior to initiating IOMMU command processing via an 
MMIO register access. 
Since an untrusted guest OS cannot be allowed to write in the real Device Table, the HV must main-
tain shadow entries in the real table on behalf of the guest. The IOMMU architecture requires soft-
ware to issue invalidate-entry commands to the IOMMU after updating Device Table entries. The HV 
can intercept these invalidate commands, look up the corresponding entries in the guest's simulated 
Device Table, and make shadow entries in the real Device Table on behalf of the guest. Note that the 
DeviceIDs as seen by the guest need not be the same as the real DeviceIDs and the DomainIDs used 
by the guest are almost certainly different from the DomainIDs used by the HV in the real Device 
Table.
In addition, for each guest VM I/O page table, the HV must construct a shadow I/O page table. This 
shadow I/O page table is the page table that is given to the real IOMMU. Unfortunately, since an 
incomplete I/O device access cannot be restarted, the HV must construct each guest domain's com-
plete shadow I/O page tables eagerly as soon as the guest enables paging for that domain. The HV 
must write-protect guest I/O page tables from the guest in order to intercept all guest updates and 
propagate the updates to the shadow I/O page tables.
The Hypervisor (HV) can also implement a subset of the IOMMU optional features by reporting that 
subset via the IOMMU Extended Feature Register [MMIO Offset 0030h]. The subset of additional 
features can be implemented using the same techniques described above.
1.2.7
Virtualized User Mode Device Accesses
An IOMMU with two-level translation enforces system protection policies while allowing arbitrary 
I/O devices to be properly controlled by user-level processes in a virtualized system. As noted in Sec-
[AMD Public Use]
