116
Architecture
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
The AMD64 long mode page tables contain information about memory types (PAT) and the IOMMU 
ignores these bits when it is outside the coherence domain.
2.2.7.4
Updating Accessed and Dirty Bits in the Guest Address Tables
When Guest translation is supported, the IOMMU updates A and D bits in guest page descriptors 
when guest address translation is used by the peripheral transaction. When the IOMMU updates A 
and D bits in the guest page descriptors, it uses interlocked operations compatible with the processor 
update operations. When A and D bits in host page tables are supported [Section 2.2.3.1 and Section 
2.2.3.2] the IOMMU hardware also updates the host page descriptors in manner similar to one 
described below. Note that the setting of accessed and dirty status bits in the page tables is visible to 
both the CPU and the peripheral when sharing guest page tables. The IOMMU interlocked operations 
to update A and D bits must be 64-bit operations and naturally aligned on a 64-bit boundary.
When the IOMMU fetches each needed page table entry, it processes the descriptor differently for 
memory access requests and for translation requests. For a memory access request, the IOMMU pro-
cesses the descriptor as follows:
1. Decodes the read and write intent from the memory access.
2. If P=0 in the page descriptor, fail the access.
3. Compare the A & D bits in the descriptor with the read and write intent in the request.
4. If the A or D bits need to be updated in the descriptor:
•
Start atomic operation.
•
Read the descriptor as a 64-bit access.
•
If the descriptor no longer appears to require an update, release the atomic lock with no further 
action and continue to step 5.
•
Calculate the new A & D bits.
•
Write the descriptor as a 64-bit access.
•
End atomic operation.
5. Continue to the next stage of translation or to the memory access.
For a translation request, the IOMMU processes the descriptor as follows:
1. Decode the read and write intent from the ATS request, including the ATS 1.1 NW bit.
2. If P=0 in the descriptor, return an ATS response with no access (R=W=0).
3. Check the A & D bits in the descriptor against the read and write intent in the translation request.
4. If the descriptor is obtained from the TLB (P=1) and permissions are not adequate to meet the 
request, discard the TLB entry, rewalk the page table, and re-evaluate the request.
5. If the descriptor has been obtained from a page-table walk, return the indicated permissions.
6. If the A or D bits need to be updated in the descriptor:
•
Start atomic operation.
•
Read the descriptor as a 64-bit access.
•
If the descriptor no longer appears to require an update, release the lock with no further action 
and continue to step 7.
•
Update the A & D bits.
[AMD Public Use]
