2
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
any version of the Specification, You agree AMD may freely use, reproduce, license, distribute, and 
otherwise commercialize Your Feedback in any product, as well as has the right to sub-license third 
parties to do the same. Further, You will not give AMD any Feedback that You may have reason to 
believe is (i) subject to any patent, copyright or other intellectual property claim or right of any third 
party; or (ii) subject to license terms which seek to require any product or intellectual property incor-
porating or derived from Feedback or any Product or other AMD intellectual property to be licensed 
to or otherwise provided to any third party. 
6. You shall adhere to all applicable U.S., European, and other export laws, including but not limited 
to the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”), (15 C.F.R. Sections 730 through 774), and 
E.U. Council Regulation (EC) No 428/2009 of 5 May 2009. Further, pursuant to Section 740.6 of the 
EAR, You hereby certifies that, except pursuant to a license granted by the United States Department 
of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security or as otherwise permitted pursuant to a License Excep-
tion under the U.S. Export Administration Regulations ("EAR"), You will not (1) export, re-export or 
release to a national of a country in Country Groups D:1, E:1 or E:2 any restricted technology, soft-
ware, or source code You receive hereunder, or (2) export to Country Groups D:1, E:1 or E:2 the 
direct product of such technology or software, if such foreign produced direct product is subject to 
national security controls as identified on the Commerce Control List (currently found in Supplement 
1 to Part 774 of EAR). For the most current Country Group listings, or for additional information 
about the EAR or Your obligations under those regulations, please refer to the U.S. Bureau of Indus-
try and Security’s website at http://www.bis.doc.gov/. 
7. If You are a part of the U.S. Government, then the Specification is provided with “RESTRICTED 
RIGHTS” as set forth in sub-paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of the Commercial Computer Software-
Restricted Rights clause at FAR 52.227-14 or subparagraph (c) (1)(ii) of the Rights in Technical Data 
and Computer Software clause at DFARS 252.277-7013, as applicable. 
8. This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of California without regard to its choice of 
law principles. Any dispute involving it must be brought in a court having jurisdiction of such dispute 
in Santa Clara County, California, and You waive any defenses and rights allowing the dispute to be 
litigated elsewhere. If any part of this agreement is unenforceable, it will be considered modified to 
the extent necessary to make it enforceable, and the remainder shall continue in effect. The failure of 
AMD to enforce any rights granted hereunder or to take action against You in the event of any breach 
hereunder shall not be deemed a waiver by AMD as to subsequent enforcement of rights or subse-
quent actions in the event of future breaches. This Agreement is the entire agreement between You 
and AMD concerning the Specification; it may be changed only by a written document signed by 
both You and an authorized representative of AMD. 
[AMD Public Use]
