I/O Virtualization ACPI Table
293
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
The IOMMU DeviceID in the IVHD header identifies the IOMMU defined by the IVHD block. The 
Capability Offset is required in case the function implements multiple IOMMU capabilities.
All peripherals that can generate transactions processed by an IOMMU must be defined in the IVHD.
There are two classes of IVHD blocks: 1) The fixed-length IVHD, which only allows the inclusion of 
device entries that are identified using pre-assigned DeviceIDs, and 2) the variable-length IVHD, 
which allows the inclusion of devices that are identified using ACPI HID device names.
Device entries are packed into the IVHD following the 24 or 40 byte header (shown in Table 89 
above). If a mixed format IVRS includes both fixed length and variable length device entries, the 
fixed length device entries must appear first in the data structure, followed by the variable length 
device entries.
These two classes of IVHDs are described in the following sections.
Fixed-Length IVHD Blocks
The IVHD device entries, which follow the 24 or 40 byte header, describe the I/O topology (start and 
end of a range, or single entries) of I/O devices and slots served by an IOMMU. All possible Device 
IDs must be defined, whether the DeviceID is actually populated or not. Device entries are used to 
report ranges when hot-plug and SR-IOV devices are possible. Each DeviceID is described by one 
IVHD device entry which may be a select or select-alias record or is part of a range or an alias range. 
If a given DeviceID exists but can generate neither DMA nor interrupts (ever), it need not be listed in 
the IVHD block. A DeviceID used as an alias must be included in the device list (either “select” or 
“range”). The simplest IVRS contains one DeviceID range for each IOMMU; a system with one 
IOMMU may report as little as a single range covering all DeviceIDs (0000h–FFFFh).
Implementation Note: all DeviceID values served by an IOMMU must be reported in an IVHD block 
including DeviceIDs not yet populated (including, but not limited to, virtual functions and empty hot-
Table 89: I/O Virtualization Hardware Definition (IVHD) Block Generic Format
Byte
offset
I/O Virtualization Hardware Definition (IVHD) block
0
Type
 Flags
Length
IOMMU DeviceID Capability Offset
8
IOMMU Base address
16
PCI Segment 
Group
IOMMU info
IOMMU feature information
Types 
11h, 40h 
only
24
IOMMU EFR Image
32
reserved
24 or 40 IVHD device entries ...
—
Additional device entries as required.
Offset:
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
[AMD Public Use]
