Architecture
139
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
the command.
•
When an INVALIDATE_IOTLB_PAGES command is received, the IOMMU must ensure that all 
cache entries associated with any prior INVALIDATE_DEVTAB_ENTRY or 
INVALIDATE_IOMMU_PAGES commands are invalidated from the cache before executing the 
command.
2.4.11.2 Invalidation Commands Interaction Requirements
Invalidation commands are considered complete only when the IOMMU can ensure there are no 
DMA transactions in flight anywhere in the system fabric that relied on translation cache contents 
prior to invalidation. To ensure this property is achieved, the IOMMU must follow these rules:
•
The IOMMU must ensure that read responses for all DMA outstanding read transactions that 
match the invalidation command have been received by the IOMMU. 
•
HyperTransportTM tunnels that support address translation can achieve this property by 
maintaining a counter that is incremented when a non-posted transaction is forwarded to the 
processor through the tunnel and is decremented when a response is forwarded from the 
processor through the tunnel. The invalidation command can be considered complete when 
the counter reaches zero.
The tunnel may temporarily block upstream traffic to cause the counter to resolve to zero in a 
timely manner, ensuring that forward progress of the invalidation command is made.
•
The IOMMU must ensure that all DMA write transactions that have already been translated have 
been pushed to the host bridge by:
Prior to sending invalidation completion indication (interrupt or status write), the IOMMU must:
•
Send an upstream Fence command in the base channel if the IOMMU supports translating 
requests for more than one upstream stream (more than one unitID is in use). 
•
Send an upstream Fence command followed by a Flush command in the isochronous channel 
if the IOMMU supports translating requests in both the isochronous and the base channels. 
The invalidation completion must wait for the Flush response to be received.
The IOMMU must ensure that both of these requirements are met prior to executing a subsequent 
COMPLETION_WAIT command.
An invalidation command matches an outstanding translation if the command:
•
Invalidates the Device Table entry for the I/O device that caused a translation to be initiated, or 
•
Invalidates the virtual address range being translated for a device.
2.5 Event Logging
The IOMMU reports events to the host software by means of a shared circular buffer in system mem-
ory. The IOMMU writes event records into the buffer. If the IOMMU needs to report an event but 
finds that the event log is already full, it sets MMIO Offset 2020h[EventOverflow]. The IOMMU can 
be configured to signal an interrupt whenever the event log is written or overflows using Capability 
Offset 10h[MsiNum]. The host software increments the IOMMU's head pointer to indicate to the 
IOMMU that it has consumed event log entries.
When supported, the IOMMU generates event log entries for guest translations as well as host trans-
lations using Capability Offset 10h[MsiNum]. Because some event reports are caused by hardware 
[AMD Public Use]
