Implementation Considerations
283
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
4 Implementation Considerations
This chapter discusses issues that are primarily of concern to IOMMU implementers.
The IOMMU specification is intended to allow a wide range of implementations with different cost 
and performance trade-offs. Potential implementation technology may range from ASIC to full cus-
tom. Capacity and organization of the IOMMU’s translation caches can vary substantially depending 
on technology, die budgets, and product requirements. The IOMMU can be integrated with a chipset 
(typically as part of some existing interconnect bridge) or built as a standalone component (which can 
act as a HyperTransportTM bridge or tunnel).
4.1 Caching and Invalidation Strategies
All IOMMU implementations should have some form of translation cache that allows the IOMMU to 
determine the disposition of device accesses quickly without having to re-walk the IOMMU tables for 
each separate device access. The translation cache is likely to be the largest portion of the IOMMU’s 
die area budget in all but the smallest implementations. Consequently the IOMMU specification has 
been written to allow flexibility in the design of the translation cache.
Plausible implementations range from direct mapped RAM structures to fully associative CAM struc-
tures, with the expectation that most implementations are set associative. Furthermore, implementers 
may choose to flatten the multi-stage IOMMU table walk into a single cache array lookup, or, alterna-
tively, may choose to use a similar multi-stage organization for internal translation cache lookups.
The IOMMU’s translation cache must support the following operations:
•
Lookup — when the IOMMU processes an access by a particular device to a specified DVA, it 
applies protection checks and translation transformations using information obtained using 
DeviceID and DVA.
•
Invalidate device — discard any translation cache contents that depend on a specific Device Table 
entry.
•
Invalidate virtual address (within domain) — discard any cached translations for a virtual address 
within the specified domain.
Typical IOMMU implementations are likely to be built with ASIC design flows, where CAM cells 
are expensive compared to RAM cells. The main implication of this is that direct support for different 
page sizes is likely to require a combination of separate arrays and/or multiple entries within arrays, 
causing both fills and invalidations to require time-consuming search-and-destroy algorithms. 
The IOMMU is designed to support three main usage models: 
•
Direct user process access to a single device like a graphics controller; 
•
Direct virtual machine guest access to a collection of devices that have been dedicated to that 
guest; and 
•
A single non-virtualized OS using the IOMMU to enforce device to system memory access 
controls.
[AMD Public Use]
