IOMMU Overview
35
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
cute the transfer using the address within the GART aperture, which must be located in low memory. 
Although this approach avoids the cost of bounce buffer copies, it is less than desirable, since the rel-
atively small GART aperture must be shared by all legacy I/O devices and any graphics processors in 
the system. The device drivers have additional locking and synchronization overhead associated with 
page allocation and de-allocation in the GART aperture and system performance may be degraded 
due to serialization waiting for the GART aperture to become available.
The IOMMU provides a better solution. First, IOMMU translation applies to the full range of 
addresses an I/O device can generate, rather than requiring high-memory transfers to be mapped only 
within the narrow range of GART addresses. Moreover, the IOMMU's ability to assign each I/O 
device to a different domain means that heavily used I/O devices can be given their own sets of I/O 
page tables and do not have to contend with other I/O devices for allocation and de-allocation of I/O 
pages.
1.2.4
User Mode Device Accesses
The IOMMU plays a crucial role in allowing arbitrary I/O devices to be safely controlled by user-
level processes, since I/O devices whose memory accesses are translated by the IOMMU can only 
access pages that are explicitly mapped by the associated I/O page tables. The I/O devices' access can 
therefore be limited to those pages to which the user processes legitimately have access.
Setting up the IOMMU for user-level I/O to an I/O device may be set up similarly to GART emulation 
with two differences; first, the mappable address range is the entire range of I/O device-generatable 
addresses, and secondly, the operating system is not necessarily required to make exactly equivalent 
mappings in the processor page tables (although most likely it will).
Even with the help of the IOMMU, enabling user level I/O device access involves many design con-
siderations. Protecting and remapping DMA is one part of the problem; the other part is interrupt 
management, for which the IOMMU provides help.
As was the case with GART emulation, system software must assess the need to lock in memory all 
pages that might ever be accessed by an I/O Device controlled by a user-level process. It may be pos-
sible to avoid needing to lock in memory if an I/O Device can use peripheral page request (PPR) 
mechanism, optionally implemented by IOMMU, to generate page fault as and when it touches a 
page. 
1.2.5
Virtual Machine Guest Access to Devices
The IOMMU can be used to allow unmodified virtual machine guest operating systems to directly 
access I/O devices. This is really just a special case of allowing user-level access to I/O devices, but 
there are a few considerations that warrant separate mention.
First of all, a non-VM-aware guest has no current way of informing its Hypervisor (HV) which pages 
an I/O device might access, so the HV must lock the entire guest in memory. The HV’s I/O page 
tables for the guest should then simply map guest physical addresses to system physical addresses. If 
the HV is running the guest under nested paging and is using nested page tables built to be compatible 
with the IOMMU, then the IOMMU can directly share the host CPU page tables for the guest.
Often a single virtual machine (VM) guest has direct access to multiple I/O devices. By design, all 
[AMD Public Use]
