68
Architecture
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
105:104 SysMgt: system management message enable. Specifies whether device-initiated untrans-
lated memory requests that target the system management address space in Table 3 are 
blocked, forwarded, or translated by the IOMMU. 
00b=Device initiated DMA transactions in the system management address range are 
return target abort status by the IOMMU. Translation requests return target abort status.
01b=Device initiated system management messages, including INTx messages, are for-
warded untranslated by the IOMMU. Upstream reads or non-posted writes return target 
abort status. Translation requests return target abort status.
10b=Device initiated INTx messages are forwarded by the IOMMU untranslated; device 
initiated system management messages other than INTx messages return target abort sta-
tus. Upstream reads and non-posted writes return target abort status. Translation requests 
return target abort status.
11b=Device initiated DMA transactions in the system management address range are 
translated by the IOMMU.
103
EX: allow exclusion. 1=Accesses from this device that address the IOMMU exclusion 
range are excluded from translation and access checks. 0=Accesses from this device to the 
IOMMU exclusion range are translated and checked for access rights. See IOMMU 
Exclusion Base Register / Completion Store Base Register [MMIO Offset 0020h] and 
IOMMU Exclusion Range Limit Register / Completion Store Limit Register [MMIO Off-
set 0028h].
In SEV-TIO mode, this field is reserved in the non-secure DTE. See Section 2.14.1.
102
SD: snoop disable. 1=IOMMU page table walk transactions for this device are not 
snooped. Data fabric transactions by an IOMMU must not set the coherent bit in page 
table walk requests for this device. Software must synchronize page table updates. 
0=IOMMU page table walk transactions for this device are snooped. HyperTransportTM 
transactions by an IOMMU must set the coherent bit in page table walk requests for this 
device. See also the Coherent bit in the IOMMU Control Register [MMIO Offset 0018h].
In SEV-TIO mode, this field is reserved in the non-secure DTE. See Section 2.14.1.
101
Cache: IOTLB cache hint. 1=the IOMMU avoids caching GPA-to-SPA translation infor-
mation obtained for ATS requests. 0=the IOMMU caches GPA-to-SPA translation infor-
mation obtained for ATS requests when the peripheral is directed to issue untranslated 
addresses (see Table 12). For ATS requests containing a GVA, the IOMMU optionally 
caches translation information and sets U=0 in an ATS response. 
Software Note: It is recommended that software set Cache=0 for peripherals with an 
IOTLB.
1=Caching of translations for explicit translation requests is not recommended. See Sec-
tion 2.2.7.3.
Table 7: Device Table Entry (DTE) Field Definitions (Continued)
Bits
Description
[AMD Public Use]
