54
Architecture
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
2.1.4.4
Address Translation Requests in the IOMMU Exclusion Range
I/O devices may request address translations for addresses in the IOMMU exclusion range, defined 
by IOMMU Exclusion Base Register / Completion Store Base Register [MMIO Offset 0020h] and 
IOMMU Exclusion Range Limit Register / Completion Store Limit Register [MMIO Offset 0028h], 
and may cache the results. When software changes the exclusion range, it must invalidate remote 
IOTLBs that may contain affected translation entries. Address translation requests to the exclusion 
range always return permissions that allow reading and writing
An address translation request for a GPA within the exclusion range returns an implementation-
defined result. 
2.1.4.5
Address Translation Requests in the Special Address Range
I/O device address translation requests for a GPA within special address ranges in Table 3 are con-
trolled by the SysMgt and IoCtl settings in the Device Table entry (see Section 2.2.2.1 “Device Table 
Entry Format” on page 61) and can either return a translation or cause a target abort. 
2.1.4.6
Page Translation Entries Spanning Memory and Special Address Ranges
An IOMMU address translation entry for a GPA may be constructed to cover both conventional mem-
ory addresses and special addresses (see Table 3). The DTE[IoCtl] and DTE[SysMgt] fields control 
IOMMU behavior. To translate a GPA address in a special address range, set the corresponding spe-
cial address range control in the DTE to direct the IOMMU to translate the desired special address 
ranges as memory addresses. 
2.1.4.7
Discarding IOMMU TLB Information to Re-walk Page Tables
An optional feature adds the capability for the IOMMU to rewalk the page tables under certain condi-
tions. When the IOMMU detects an access violation based on cached information, it discards the 
information in the IOMMU TLB and reloads the translation information from memory. Interrupt 
remapping information is only loaded from memory on a TLB miss. See Section 1.3.4 “Address 
Translation Services for Guest Virtual Addresses” on page 45 for details.
2.1.4.8
Discarding Device IOTLB Information to Rewalk Page Tables
An optional feature adds the capability for the IOMMU to rewalk the page tables under certain condi-
tions. The peripheral can use address translation information from the IOTLB or obtained via ATS to 
determine access privileges for a nested (host) access. As an AMD extension, a peripheral with an 
IOTLB must invalidate a cached entry causing an insufficient-privilege failure when R=1 or W=1 in 
the IOTLB entry for a guest access. The peripheral must then request the guest translation informa-
tion using ATS and retry the access. If the revised privileges are insufficient for the retry, the periph-
eral must take appropriate action to abandon the access or issue a PCIe® PRI request for escalated 
privileges. 
2.1.4.9
Updating the Accessed and Dirty Bits in Guest Page Tables
An optional feature adds the capability for the IOMMU to write to the guest page table. The IOMMU 
must update the guest page table Accessed and Dirty bits atomically. The IOMMU never clears the 
Accessed or Dirty bits; software is responsible to clear the bits. The IOMMU is allowed to cache 
these bits, so software must issue invalidation commands when it clears the bits in a PTE. See Section 
2.2.7.4 and Section 2.2.7.5 for details.
[AMD Public Use]
