Architecture
53
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
page 54). The peripheral can examine the translation response to determine if a particular memory 
transaction would cause an exception. Peripherals may request page fault service as described in Sec-
tion 2.6 “Peripheral Page Request (PPR) Logging” on page 178.
2.1.3.3
Memory Access Errors
The IOMMU's own memory accesses to its in-memory tables may themselves result in several kinds 
of errors, including:
•
Accesses to nonexistent or non-DRAM addresses because the IOMMU's isochronous virtual 
channel is restricted to DRAM addresses only.
•
Uncorrectable ECC errors.
•
Use of reserved values, including invalid or unsupported type codes in Device Table entries and 
reserved bits in page table entries.
The IOMMU records all detected memory access errors in its event log when event logging is 
enabled. Optionally hardware errors may also be stored in the error registers (see Section 2.5.16.2).
2.1.4
Special Conditions
This section defines the behavior of the IOMMU for particular operating conditions.
2.1.4.1
Zero-byte Read Operations
In some bus architectures, a zero-byte read operation is defined as a special operation with well-
defined side effects. Because of these side effects, the IOMMU must permit a zero-byte read opera-
tion when a page is marked to allow either read or write access. Further, because the zero-byte read 
operation returns undefined data in some bus specifications, protecting the contents of a non-readable 
memory location requires that the IOMMU obscure the returned data for a zero-byte read operation. 
Implementation Note: methods to obscure the returned data in a zero-byte read operation include 
returning a constant, a random value, or a predictable value not based on the data contents such as 
the address.
2.1.4.2
Interrupt Address Range
Accesses to the interrupt address range (Table 3) are defined to go through the interrupt remapping 
portion of the IOMMU and not through address translation processing. Therefore, when a transaction 
is being processed as an interrupt remapping operation, the transaction attribute of pretranslated or 
untranslated is ignored. 
Software Note: The IOMMU should not be configured such that an address translation results in a 
special address such as the interrupt address range.
2.1.4.3
Multi-page Address Translation Requests Lacking a PDE
An address translation transaction to the IOMMU can request multiple pages. The page size (stride) is 
generally determined by the PDE used with level=0 or level=7. The page stride is always a power of 
two. For situations where there is no relevant PDE (within the IOMMU exclusion range or when the 
DTE[Mode] = 0), the results returned by the IOMMU are implementation-specific. 
[AMD Public Use]
