60
Architecture
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
page tables. The maximum size of a guest virtual address (GVA) is defined in Capability Offset 
10h[GVAsize].
2.2.1
Updating Shared Tables
The I/O page table structures have been designed so they can be shared among processors and 
IOMMUs. The table structures (Interrupt Remapping Table, Device Table, and host I/O page tables) 
can be shared among IOMMUs. 
The guest I/O page table structures are directly compatible with the AMD64 long mode page table 
format. IOMMU accesses can optionally update the tables so they can be shared with a processor. 
Shared tables have requirements for correct updates by system software.
When updating a table entry, system software is encouraged to use aligned 64-bit accesses although 
control bits are defined that allow system software updating a table to use byte accesses. Software 
should keep the page table content in a consistent state.
Each table can also have its contents cached by the IOMMU or peripheral IOTLBs. Therefore, after 
updating a table entry that can be cached, system software must send the IOMMU an appropriate 
invalidate command. Information in the peripheral IOTLBs must also be invalidated. 
The IOMMU optionally supports hardware updates of Accessed and Dirty bits in guest page tables. 
The IOMMU is allowed to cache these bits, so software must issue invalidation commands when it 
clears the bits in memory.
2.2.2
Device Table
I/O devices that originate transactions are identified by a 16-bit DeviceID. The derivation of the Devi-
ceID is fabric-dependent; for example, Figure 5 shows how PCIe and PCI-X® RequesterIDs are 
mapped into IOMMU DeviceIDs and Figure 6 shows how the data fabric UnitIDs are mapped into 
IOMMU DeviceIDs. 
Software Note: the mapping of DeviceID from one bus to another is platform specific; consult the 
platform documentation for details.
Figure 5: Example DeviceID Derived from Peripheral RequesterID
The number of bits allocated to the Bus, Device, and Function fields varies according to settings in 
the PCI configuration. The partitioning shown is a typical example.
Figure 6: DeviceID Derived from Peripheral UnitID
15
8
7
3
2
0
Bus
Device
Function
15
8
7
3
2
0
Bus
Unit ID
0
Note: The I/O fabric bus number is located in the Slave/Primary 
Interface Block associated with the inbound link that supplies the 
data traffic.
[AMD Public Use]
