Architecture
49
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
2 Architecture
This chapter describes the IOMMU's architecture mainly from a system software point of view. The 
discussion starts with the normal steady state behavior of the IOMMU once it has been set up, focus-
ing on how the IOMMU handles various device transactions. The following section describes the in-
memory data structures used to control the IOMMU, together with the procedures software must fol-
low to correctly update these (shared) data structures. Finally, the chapter concludes with a descrip-
tion of the PCI resources that must be initialized at system startup time to configure the IOMMU.
2.1 Behavior
When the IOMMU is disabled it simply passes all bus traffic through without alteration.
When the IOMMU is enabled, it intercepts requests arriving from downstream devices (which may be 
attached to the system via the data fabric, PCIe link, or other means), performs permission checks and 
address translation on the requests, and sends translated versions upstream to system memory. Other 
requests are passed through unaltered (details in Section 2.1.1 “Normal Operation” on page 49). PCI 
devices serviced by a single IOMMU must be on the same PCI Segment Group (see PCI Firmware 
specification for further details of PCI Segment Groups).
The IOMMU reads three tables in system memory to perform its permission checks, interrupt remap-
ping, and address translations. To avoid deadlock, memory accesses for device tables, page tables, 
and interrupt remapping tables by the IOMMU use an isochronous virtual channel and may only ref-
erence addresses in system memory. Other memory reads originated by the IOMMU to command 
buffers, event log entries, and optional request queue entries use the normal virtual channel. System 
performance could be substantially reduced if the IOMMU performed the full table lookup process 
for every device request it handled. Therefore, implementations of the IOMMU are expected to main-
tain internal caches for the contents of the IOMMU's in-memory tables, and correct operation of the 
IOMMU requires system software to send appropriate invalidation commands to the IOMMU when it 
updates table entries that may have been cached by the IOMMU.
The IOMMU writes to the event log in system memory using the normal virtual channel. The 
IOMMU can optionally write to the peripheral page request log in system memory and these writes 
use the normal virtual channel. The IOMMU can optionally write to the guest virtual APIC log in sys-
tem memory and these writes use the normal virtual channel.
The IOMMU signals interrupts using standard PCI MSI or MSI-X interrupts. 
2.1.1
Normal Operation
The typical flow of requests through the IOMMU is as follows:
•
Read, write, and interrupt transactions generated by the IOMMU are not translated by the 
IOMMU.
•
Transactions arriving from upstream must be passed downstream unaltered.
•
Transactions arriving from downstream that are response, fence, or flush commands must be 
passed upstream unaltered.
[AMD Public Use]
