32
IOMMU Overview
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
tem memory that is to be accessed.
The IOMMU may include optional support for remote IOTLBs. A trusted I/O device with IOTLB 
support can cooperate with the IOMMU to maintain its own cache of address translations. This cre-
ates a framework for creating scalable systems with an IOMMU in which I/O devices may have dif-
ferent usage models and working set sizes. IOTLB-capable I/O devices contain private TLBs tailored 
for their own needs, creating a scalable distributed system of TLBs. The performance of IOTLB-
capable I/O devices is not limited by the number of TLB entries implemented in the IOMMU. A 
peripheral with an IOTLB may issue untranslated addresses or pretranslated addresses that are deter-
mined from IOTLB entries. Pretranslated addresses are not checked by the IOMMU except to vali-
date that the peripheral has the IOTLB enable bit set (I = 1) in the corresponding Device Table Entry 
(see Figure 7 and Table 7).
Major system resources provided by the IOMMU include:
•
I/O DMA access permission checking and address translation using memory-based translation 
tables.
•
Optional support for guest translation tables compatible with the AMD64 long mode page table 
format.
•
A Device Table that allows I/O devices to be assigned to specific domains and contains pointers 
to the I/O devices’ page tables.
•
An interrupt remapping table which the IOMMU uses to provide permission checking and 
interrupt remapping for I/O device interrupts 
•
Optional AMD64 guest virtual APIC mechanism which the IOMMU uses to deliver interrupts to 
guest VMs.
•
Memory-based queues for exchanging command and status information between the IOMMU 
and the system processor(s).
•
Optional support for a peripheral page request (PPR) log.
•
Features to mitigate PPR and Event Log overflow.
•
Optional support for a hardware-based mechanism for allowing privileged I/O devices to directly 
access defining regions of system memory.
The IOMMU is similar to the processor's memory management unit, except that it provides address 
translation and page protection for direct memory accesses (DMA) by peripheral devices rather than 
memory accesses by the processor. 
The IOMMU provides no direct indication to an I/O device of a failed translation when processing an 
untranslated posted request. This is in contrast to the page fault mechanism employed by CPU’s 
MMU.
Systems supported by the IOMMU may consist of a number of processor and device nodes connected 
to each other by a data fabric such as AMD Infinity Fabric, Data Fabric links or other means. The 
IOMMU can only process memory transactions that are routed through its node in the system fabric. 
In a system with multiple links and buses to I/O devices, multiple IOMMUs are required to ensure 
that each I/O link or bus has appropriate protection and translation applied. Figure 1 shows an exam-
[AMD Public Use]
