34
IOMMU Overview
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
results of the translation can be any system physical address.
To set up the equivalent translations for I/O device-initiated accesses, the host OS must:
•
Construct I/O page tables that specify the desired translations.
•
Make an entry in the Device Table pointing to the newly constructed I/O page tables.
•
Notify the IOMMU of the newly updated Device Table entry.
At this point, all accesses by both the host processor and the graphics device are mapped to the same 
pages as they would have been by the GART.
If the host OS changes the page protection or translation, it must update both the processor page 
tables and, if not shared, the I/O page tables and issue appropriate page-invalidate commands to both 
the processor and the IOMMU. Unlike the processor, the IOMMU requires page-invalidate com-
mands after any change to the I/O page tables. (AMD64 processors do not require page-invalidate 
operations after changes to leaf page table entries that add permission and make no change to transla-
tion.) Sharing of page tables is discussed in Section 2.2.1, “Updating Shared Tables” on page 60 and 
Section 2.2.4, “Sharing AMD64 Processor and IOMMU Page Tables—GPA-to-SPA” on page 88.
Since the IOMMU offers no facilities for restarting device accesses to unmapped or protected 
addresses, all pages that the device might access must be mapped with appropriate permissions. In 
this respect the IOMMU is similar to the GART.
1.2.2
Replacing the Device Exclusion Vector Mechanism
The Device Exclusion Vector (DEV) is a basic security mechanism that was introduced with the 
AMD64 Secure Virtual Machine (SVM) Architecture. Like the IOMMU, the DEV allows I/O devices 
to be classified into different domains. Associated with each domain is a bit vector, indexed by physi-
cal page address, indicating whether I/O devices in that domain are allowed to access the correspond-
ing physical page. 
The IOMMU provides protection and translation. If only protection is needed, software can create 
identity-mapped I/O page tables that specify the desired protection.
1.2.3
32-bit to 64-bit Legacy I/O Device Mapping
With the advent of large physical memories, legacy 32-bit devices that rely on DMA can no longer 
arbitrarily access system memory. This complicates operating systems, which must introduce a dis-
tinction between low memory and high memory and perform appropriate bookkeeping to ensure that 
legacy I/O devices are only commanded to perform transfers using low memory. The cost is not just 
complexity; to perform a transfer from a legacy I/O device to high memory, for example, the operat-
ing system typically allocates a bounce buffer in low memory, performs the transfer in low memory, 
and then copies the result to the real destination in high memory. For high-bandwidth I/O devices like 
disk controllers and network interfaces, the performance cost of bounce buffer allocation and copying 
can be large.
In some operating systems, the GART has been used to work around this problem. When the OS 
wishes to perform a transfer between a legacy I/O device and high memory, it allocates a portion of 
the GART aperture and maps those pages to high memory. It then commands the I/O device to exe-
[AMD Public Use]
