I/O Virtualization ACPI Table
289
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
In the example system shown in Figure 90, there is a single IOMMU and all the I/O devices are 
attached downstream. Assuming that firmware has pre-assigned I/O device IDs, the pertinent I/O Vir-
tualization information can be described using a single IVHD (type = 10h or 11h) block to define the 
IOMMU and its attached I/O devices. IVHD device entries define the entire range of peripherals 
(DeviceID 0h through DeviceID FFFFh), probably as a range, (see IVHD device entry types 3 and 4 
in Table 105 and IVHD device entry type 71 in Table 107) and IVHD special device entries for the 
IOAPIC and for the HPET (see IVHD device entry type 72 in Table 107).
In a system where one or more I/O devices are identified using the ACPI HID format, the IVRS con-
tains a Type 40h IVHD block that may contain both fixed length device entries and variable length 
device entries to define the entire range of peripherals. Variable length device entries use the ACPI 
HID device format (See Table 110.) The IOAPIC is require to boot, so it is reported as an IVHD spe-
cial device entry; the HPET is not required for boot so it can be reported as an IVHD special device 
entry if it is assigned a BDF by the boot program or as a special device entry if it is not assigned a 
BDF.
5.1 IOMMU Control Flow
The IOMMU start-up procedure flows through several stages. In general, the IOMMU PCI configura-
tion space is initially configured by the platform firmware and later the primary operational manipu-
lations are done by (privileged) system software. Some settings are programmed into the IOMMU 
hardware at design time (e.g., virtual address size, physical address size, MSI interrupts). Certain 
hardware features can be overridden by the platform designer and so are defined in ACPI settings 
(e.g., the exclusion range, remote IOTLB support), such as when certain features are not included in 
platform qualification testing or are reserved for use by the platform firmware. 
At system reset, the IOMMU is set to a default state. Following system reset, platform firmware is 
able to program essential platform-specific information into the IOMMU, mostly through the PCI 
configuration space registers (for example, the MMIO base address). Some additional settings are 
made by the platform firmware in the MMIO space (for example, tunnel enable) while other settings 
are made by system software in the MMIO space (for example, the coherent bit). Finally, system soft-
ware must initialize and manage IOMMU control and operational tables allocated in memory (for 
example, the device tables). Some of these control and operational settings must be configured 
according to policies determined by the platform firmware, so they are communicated to system soft-
ware via the ACPI tables (these include selected interrupt controls and system management controls).
Once configuration is complete, the IOMMU is enabled by system software and begins processing 
transactions from peripherals. From this point, the IOMMU is under the control of the system soft-
ware. See “Starting the IOMMU” on page 120 for more information on starting the IOMMU.
Software Note: Although this specification allows the placement of IOMMUs outside the root com-
plex, current platform implementations are cautioned against such designs. This architecture does not 
currently define the ACPI methods or data structures necessary to hot-plug a peripheral controller 
containing an IOMMU.
5.2 I/O Virtualization Reporting Structure (IVRS)
The I/O Virtualization Reporting Structure (IVRS) is the ACPI-compatible data structure used to 
[AMD Public Use]
