Architecture
81
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
used only for indexing within the page table and therefore the PTE must be repeated 8 times for each 
of the 64 unique PTEs given 4-Kbyte page tables. Another example for 4-Mbyte pages is illustrated in 
Figure 12. The PTE in the Level-2 page table is replicated twice and bit 21 of the virtual address is 
used twice for indexing, first to index the Level-2 table of PTEs and again to index into the 4-Mbyte 
page for the data. The replicated Level-2 PTEs have identical contents and follow the example in 
Table 14 for a page size of 4 Mbytes. For larger page sizes, the PTEs must be replicated an appropri-
ate number of times so that more bits of the virtual address can be used for indexing.
Implementation Note: While IOMMU implementations are not strictly required to include translation 
caches, it is strongly recommended that they include at least a cache for translations of 4-Kbyte page 
table entries. IOMMU implementations can cache translations of larger pages by splitting them into 
multiple 4-Kbyte cache entries.
The page table pointer for each domain specifies the system physical address and level of the root 
page table for that domain. Translation of a DVA begins by comparing it to the root page table’s level. 
If the address contains any nonzero bits in bit positions higher than the range selected by the root page 
table’s level, translation terminates with an IO_PAGE_FAULT. Otherwise, the appropriate group of 
virtual address bits is used to fetch a page table entry from the root page table. If this entry is marked 
not present, translation terminates with an IO_PAGE_FAULT. Otherwise the entry may be a page 
directory entry pointing to a lower-level page table (in which case the translation process repeats 
starting at the new page table using the remaining virtual address bits), or it may be a page translation 
entry containing the final system physical address (in which case the translation process terminates 
and the remaining DVA bits are concatenated with the translation entry’s physical address to obtain a 
translated address). If a translation skips levels and any of the skipped virtual address bits are non-
zero, translation terminates with an IO_PAGE_FAULT.
Effective write permission is calculated using the IW bits in the DTE (see Table 7), the I/O PDEs, and 
the I/O PTE. Device accesses to translated addresses are first checked against these cumulative per-
missions before being allowed to proceed. IW and IR bits from skipped levels are treated as if they 
were 1s. For a discussion of guest and host permissions, see Section 2.2.7.
Table 15 specifies the virtual address bit groups used for indexing at each level of the page tables, as 
well as the default page sizes associated with page translation entries fetched from page tables at each 
level. Figure 8 and Figure 9 illustrate the formats of page table entries. If a page table entry contains 
nonzero bits in any of the fields marked reserved, if the Next Level field is greater than or equal to the 
current page table entry table’s level, or if a page translation entry’s physical address is not aligned to 
a multiple of the appropriate page size for the current page table entry page table’s level, translation 
terminates with an IO_PAGE_FAULT.
The layout of IOMMU page table entries has been chosen so that the IOMMU can use AMD64 long 
mode processor page tables, provided the Next Level fields (which occupy bit positions ignored by 
AMD64 processors) are properly initialized according to their level within the processor page tables. 
(AMD64 processors lack the IOMMU’s level skipping facility.) All other page table entry fields used 
by the IOMMU are either ignored by AMD64 processors, or have the same meaning to both the pro-
cessor and the IOMMU. For more details on sharing page tables see Section 2.2.4.
The U bit in the page tables is an attribute bit passed to peripherals in ATS responses. See Table 12 
[AMD Public Use]
