IOMMU Overview
43
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
1.3.2
Enhanced Processor Page Table Compatibility
In its base functionality, the IOMMU can share nested (host) page tables with an AMD64 processor 
when the Reserved fields are programmed to zeros. In contrast to the processor, the IOMMU does not 
re-walk page tables when an access violation is detected using cached information. When the 
IOMMU detects an access violation in a nested transaction, either from a TLB hit or from a page-
table walk (TLB miss), it blocks the access or returns an ATS response with the calculated access 
privileges. When the IOMMU determines the proper access privileges are present, it allows the 
requested access or returns an ATS response with the calculated access privileges. 
Processor Page Table Compatibility Feature. The compatibility of the IOMMU with AMD64 long 
mode page tables is enhanced when operating in AMD64 mode. The IOMMU can directly share 
AMD64 long mode page tables with the processor for guest address translations. The guest page 
translation tables are strictly compatible with the AMD64 long mode format and semantics, including 
IOMMU updates to the Accessed and Dirty bits (see Section 2.2.6 “I/O Page Tables for Guest Trans-
lations” on page 99 and Section 2.2.7.4 “Updating Accessed and Dirty Bits in the Guest Address 
Tables” on page 116). When guest translation is used, the IOMMU follows the AMD64 long mode 
address translation requirements for guest virtual addresses and thus software is not required to issue 
an invalidation command when it promotes guest access privileges; only when software demotes 
guest access privileges or removes the guest page (“present to not-present”) must software issue an 
invalidation. Therefore an ATS request or DMA reference that results in insufficient guest privileges 
calculated from a TLB entry may be based on stale information. To determine current permissions, 
the IOMMU rewalks the guest page tables to recompute access permission using information read 
from memory. The nested page tables may be read as a consequence of the guest table rewalk. The 
IOMMU determines the results of the access based on the newly read page table information. The 
rewalk may require a full walk of both guest and nested translations. Details are in Section 2.2.7 
[Guest and Nested Address Translation]). The AMD64 long mode page tables contain information 
about memory types in the Page Attribute Table (PAT); the IOMMU can provide memory type infor-
mation to a peripheral but does not interpret or validate the information.
1.3.3
Performance Features
The IOMMU provides three performance-oriented features: performance counters, the PREFETCH 
command, and the FLUSH_ALL command.
1.3.3.1 Performance Counters
To provide system software with consistent performance monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, an 
optional set of performance counters are defined. Support is indicated by the PCSup bit of the 
IOMMU Extended Feature Register [MMIO Offset 0030h]. An implementation may provide count-
ers in addition to the architecturally defined counters. The counters run independently from processor 
activity. The counters are organized into n counter banks, each of which fits in a 4-Kbyte page. The 
HV may privately control all counter banks or assign one or more counter banks to a guest operating 
system. The number of counters and counter banks are reported to system software (see Section 3.4 
“IOMMU MMIO Registers”  and Section 5.2.2.1 “I/O Virtualization Hardware Definition (IVHD) 
Block” ). Each counter bank has controls that filter for devices and event sources of interest. Each 
event counter is programmed to count events or the duration of the events and each counter register 
[AMD Public Use]
