I/O Virtualization ACPI Table
307
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
Notes:
1. For the operating system to properly identify a device that is not bus-enumerable, a HID is 
required while a CID is optional. If both are provided, the operating system attempts to bind the 
device to a driver using the HID. If no driver for the specific device is discovered, the operating 
system may attempt to bind the device to a generic driver using the CID, if available. 
2. The HID can be a 32-bit integer or a character string. If an integer, the lower 4 bytes of the field 
contain the integer and the upper 4 bytes are padded with 0. If the HID is a string, it must be a 
valid 8-byte ACPI ID or a valid 7-byte PNP ID with the upper byte padded with 0.
3. The CID is an optional field. If present, CID must be a single Compatible Device ID following the 
same format as the HID field. If the CID is not provided, this field should be set to zero.
4. The UID is required if there are multiple instances of the device in the ACPI namespace. If the 
UID field is not present, the length of the ACPI HID device entry is 22 bytes.
5. If defined as a character string, the ACPI UID marks the instances of DMA-capable devices with 
the defined DeviceID (e.g. IOMMU visible Routing ID). It should match the ACPI device name-
space strings with unit number, but without a trailing \0 character (as the UID length specifies the 
size of the string already). 
For example, “\_SB.FUR0” or “\_SB.FUR1” represent string definitions for separate ACPI 
device instances visible to software, but that use the same device hardware and therefore the same 
DeviceID visible to IOMMU; these two instances would require two F0h entries, each using the 
same DeviceID in offset 1.
5.2.2.2 I/O Virtualization Memory Definition (IVMD) Block
Platform firmware may have memory usage requirements to communicate to system software based 
on its needs or on hardware characteristics. Platform firmware can inform system software of mem-
ory usage restrictions or requirements by using I/O Virtualization Memory Definition (IVMD) 
blocks. 
DTE Settings
3
1
See Table 106.
Hardware ID (HID)
4
8
ACPI Hardware ID
Compatible ID (CID) 12
8
ACPI Compatible ID
Unique ID Format
20
1
0 = UID not present
1 = UID is an integer
2 = UID is a character string
Unique ID Length
21
1
Length of following field ("UID", offset 22) 
in bytes.
0 = UID not present
Unique ID (UID)
22
vari-
able
ACPI UID (See Note 5.)
Table 110: Device Entry Type F0h Fields(Continued)
Field Name
Offset
Size 
(bytes)
Value
Definition
[AMD Public Use]
