38
IOMMU Overview
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
•
Device-specific feature reporting registers
•
MMIO access to MSI setup and mapping configuration space fields
•
Memory Access Routing and Control (MARC)
•
Automatic Block StopMark Message Handling
•
Guest I/O Protection
•
x2APIC
•
Hardware Accelerated Virtualized IOMMU (vIOMMU) 
•
Secure ATS
•
Secure Nested Paging
All implementations of the IOMMU support basic capabilities such as Device Virtual to System 
Physical Address translation, interrupt remapping, and access permissions checking. To determine if 
a particular implementation of the IOMMU supports any of the architecturally-defined optional fea-
tures, software must first check that the EFRSup bit of the IOMMU Capability Header [Capability 
Offset 00h] (EFR) is set. If the EFRSup bit is set, the IOMMU Extended Feature Register [MMIO 
Offset 0030h] is supported. By reading the EFR software can determine which of the optional fea-
tures are supported by the particular IOMMU present in that system. In most cases, support for a fea-
ture is indicated by a non-zero value in the respective field of the EFR.
The EFRSup bit and many of the feature and capability reporting fields related to I/O virtualization 
are replicated in the IOMMU ACPI Tables. Information reported via this method supersedes informa-
tion reported via the Extended Feature Register and the Miscellaneous Information Register. See 
Chapter 5, "I/O Virtualization ACPI Table". 
Software Implementation Note: Software should not rely on the feature support information con-
veyed by the IOMMU Extended Feature Register for any feature that is also reported in the ACPI 
tables since system firmware can override the functional capabilities reported by the IOMMU hard-
ware.
Table 2 below lists all the architecturally defined features and specifies the field to test to determine 
support for that feature. In the table, EFR refers to the IOMMU Extended Feature Register [MMIO 
Offset 0030h], CapHdr refers to the IOMMU Capability Header [Capability Offset 00h], and CNTRL 
refers to the IOMMU Control Register [MMIO Offset 0018h].
[AMD Public Use]
