Architecture
115
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
•
Write permission - Write permission for a page is determined in a similar manner. First the write 
permission is calculated using the permission bits in the guest and nested page tables and then 
combined with the IW bit in the DTE.
•
Executable (NX) permission - See sections 2.2.6.1 and 2.2.6.2 for information on calculating 
executable permissions for a page. The executable permission is ignored when a peripheral 
supplies a GPA or SPA (i.e., when guest address translation is not used).
•
User/supervisor (U/S) permission - When permission checking is supported (EFR[USSup] = 1) 
and global privileged access abort is disabled (PrivAbrtEn = 00b), access permission is calculated 
as a cumulative-AND of the U/S permission bits in the guest page descriptors. The U/S 
permission is ignored when a peripheral supplies a GPA or SPA (i.e., when guest address 
translation is not used).
•
Page accessed (A) attribute - The Accessed attribute is not cumulative. The Accessed attribute bit 
applies to the page containing the next level of the translation table (PML4E[A] bit refers to the 
PDPE page, etc.). The Accessed bit in the PTE refers to the data page.
•
Present (P) attribute - The Present attribute bit applies to the page containing the next level of the 
translation table (PML4E[P] bit refers to the PDPE page, etc.). The Present bit in the AMD64 
PTE  refers to the data page. The page-table walk terminates when the first non-present page is 
discovered.
Implementation Note: As an optimization, a page table walk may be terminated early as long as the 
end state is not compromised. For example, a write operation to a memory location may be termi-
nated (IO_PAGE_FAULT) at the first descriptor found for a read-only region.
2.2.7.3
Recalculating Read and Write Access Permissions
The IOMMU calculates read and write access status from cached or in-memory information; if the 
result is access-denied using cached information, the IOMMU recalculates read and write access sta-
tus from in-memory information when guest address translation is used by the peripheral.
When guest translation is active (see MMIO Offset 0018h[GTEn]), the IOMMU follows the 
AMD64 long mode address translation requirements for guest virtual addresses and so software is not 
required to issue an invalidation command when it promotes guest access privileges or marks a not-
present guest page as present.  An ATS request or memory reference that results in insufficient guest 
privileges drawn from a TLB entry may be based on stale information. When the IOMMU detects an 
access violation using cached guest translation information, it must rewalk the guest page tables to 
recompute access permission using fresh information read from memory, in the process replacing or 
discarding cached information. The nested page tables may be read as a consequence of the guest 
table rewalk. If the retrieved information contains permission control settings that disallow the access 
then the IOMMU blocks the access; else the IOMMU allows the requested access. An ATS transla-
tion request calculates access privileges the same way and returns the computed result. The rewalk 
may require a full walk of both guest and nested translations (see Section 2.2.7). 
Software Note: For a peripheral using ATS, software must determine the invalidation requirements 
and issue appropriate IOTLB invalidation commands.
Software Note: Software is required to issue an invalidation command when it demotes guest access 
privileges or removes the guest page (“present to not-present”).
[AMD Public Use]
