58
Architecture
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
2. for each expected source of SMI requests:
•
choose an SMI filter register to use from the available set (see MMIO Offset 
0030h[SmiFRC]),
•
program the selected SMI filter register to the DeviceID of the peripheral (see MMIO Offset 
00[60-D8]h[SmiDID]), 
•
program the selected SMI filter register to be valid (see MMIO Offset 00[60-D8]h[SmiDV]), 
•
program the selected SMI filter register to be locked (see MMIO Offset 00[60-
D8]h[SmiFLock]),
3. reserve one or more of the remaining SMI filter registers to be unprogrammed and unlocked for 
use by the system software,
4. program remaining SMI filter registers not reserved for use by system software to be not-valid 
and locked,
5. program MMIO Offset 0018h[SmiFLogEn] to enable SMI logging so that system software is 
informed of SMI requests blocked by the SMI filter.
In this configuration, system software may program the unlocked SMI filter registers to allow SMI 
requests from additional peripherals. Software should be aware that once an SMI filter register is 
locked, it cannot be reprogrammed until the system is reset. System software and firmware will need 
to coordinate use of SMI filter registers using a method that is outside the scope this document.
2.2 Data Structures
Host software must maintain up to eight in-memory data structures for use by the IOMMU. These 
data structures are:
1. The Device Table is a table indexed by DeviceIDs. Each Device Table entry contains mode bits, a 
pointer to the I/O page tables, a pointer to an interrupt remapping control table, a set of control 
bits, and a 16-bit DomainID. The DomainID acts as an address space identifier, allowing multiple 
devices sharing the same I/O page tables to share the same translation cache resources on the 
IOMMU. The page tables must be the same for all devices that share a DomainID.
2. The I/O page table(s): Each Device Table entry may specify a different I/O page table, or different 
Device Table entries may share the same I/O page tables. Each time the IOMMU processes a 
device access to memory, it looks up the device virtual address (DVA) in its translation cache 
and/or the appropriate I/O page tables to determine whether the device has permission, as well as 
(if permitted) the system physical address to access.
3. The command buffer: The IOMMU accepts commands queued by the processor through a circu-
lar buffer located in system memory.
4. The event log: The IOMMU reports atypical events to the processor by means of another circular 
buffer, the event log, located in system memory.
5. The interrupt remapping table(s): Each Device Table entry may specify an interrupt remapping 
table. Each time the IOMMU processes a device interrupt request, it looks up the IRTE to remap 
the interrupt to the destination with a translated vector. (See Figure 15 on page 91 and Table 20 on 
page 91)
6. The peripheral page request log: The IOMMU can accept requests from PRI-capable peripherals 
to service page change requests. These requests are reported in a circular buffer, the PPR log, 
[AMD Public Use]
