Architecture
61
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
The Device Table is represented as an array of 256-bit entries with the DeviceID being used as an 
index into the array. Since there are 65,536 (64K) possible DeviceIDs, the Device Table can be up to 
2 Mbytes in length. When Device Table segmentation is not supported or not enabled, space for the 
Device Table must be contiguous, although it can be less than 64K entries in length if it is known that 
1 or more of the most-significant bits of the DeviceID are not used in the system.
The Device Table Base Address Register [MMIO Offset 0000h], controls the system physical address 
and size of the Device Table. The Device Table must be aligned on a 4-Kbyte boundary in system 
memory and must be a multiple of 4 Kbytes in length. 
The IOMMU reads the entire Device Table entry in a single 256-bit transaction.
Note: Previous versions of this IOMMU specification mentioned that the IOMMU may read the 
entire Device Table entry in two 128-bit transactions (as defined by the scope of the validity 
indicators)=1. However, no versions of IOMMU hardware implemented this option.
When the IOMMU is enabled, any I/O device whose DeviceID is beyond the end of the Device Table 
is denied I/O permission (the IOMMU target aborts the access) and all attempted accesses by such I/O 
devices are logged when event logging is enabled. When PPR logging is supported, PRI requests are 
not validated using the Device Table and so the IOMMU may create a PPR log entry for an I/O device 
whose DeviceID is beyond the end of the Device Table when page requests are enabled (see MMIO 
Offset 0018h[PPREn]), so software must validate the DeviceID as part of PPR processing.
If an I/O device uses PCI phantom functions, software must replicate Device Table entries such that 
index calculations retrieve the correct entries for any phantom function used by the I/O device.
Device Table segmentation is an optional feature described in Section 2.2.2.3.
2.2.2.1
Device Table Entry Format
Device table entries have an address translation portion, an interrupt remapping portion, and an inter-
rupt virtualization portion; control bits govern the use of each portion for a given DeviceID. The 
address translation portion has guest and nested translation portions that can be manipulated sepa-
rately; guest translation cannot operate without nested translation. 
The address translation features in Table 5 may be implemented separately from the interrupt remap-
ping and virtualization features in Table 6; when implemented, address and interrupt features may be 
enabled and operated independently. 
Table 5: Feature Enablement for Address Translation
GTSup
(MMIO 
Offset 
0030h)
GTEn
(MMIO 
Offset 
0018h)
Device Table Entry 
Address Translation 
Settings
Address Translation Features Available for Use
V
TV
GV
0
X
X
X
X
Host Translation supported; Guest Translation 
not supported.
1
0
X
X
X
Guest Translation supported, but not enabled.
[AMD Public Use]
