50
Architecture
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
•
Transactions arriving from downstream that reference addresses within the IOMMU exclusion 
range must be passed upstream unaltered.
•
Memory read and write transactions from downstream result in table lookups in the Device Table 
to obtain the DomainID of the requesting I/O device and to locate I/O page tables. Further table 
lookups are required in I/O page tables to perform address translation and permission checking. 
After performing permission checks and address translation, the IOMMU forwards the resulting 
transactions upstream if the transaction is allowed from the I/O device.
•
Address translation requests from downstream result in table lookups as for memory read and 
write transactions. Translated address and access permission information is returned to the 
requesting peripheral. Software is required to invalidate address translation mappings cached by a 
peripheral.
•
Peripheral page requests from downstream result in an event log entry if not supported, or result 
in a peripheral page request log entry written to system memory. (Optional PPR Auto response 
modifies this behavior.)
•
Interrupt addresses are never translated to system memory addresses, but Physical address ranges 
reserved for Message Signaled Interrupts (MSI) may be optionally treated as memory addresses 
for translation (e.g., ACPI address ranges, PCI configuration space mapping).
•
Upstream interrupts result in table lookups in the Device Table and then in the interrupt 
remapping tables to remap the interrupt. After performing checks and interrupt remapping, the 
IOMMU forwards the resulting interrupts upstream if the interrupt is allowed from the I/O device. 
SMI requests optionally go through the SMI filter and do not use the interrupt remapping tables.
•
Port I/O space transactions from downstream devices result in a Device Table lookup to determine 
if the I/O device is allowed to access port I/O space.
•
The IOMMU maintains an event log in system memory containing the details of transactions that 
do not complete normally.
•
The IOMMU maintains an optional guest virtual APIC log containing details of interrupt requests 
that arrive when the guest is not running.
•
The IOMMU does not further translate pretranslated memory read and write requests from 
devices if the I/O device is marked as being able to generate pretranslated addresses.
•
The IOMMU processes commands from the command queue.
The optional MARC feature allows accesses from integrated I/O devices such as GPUs to bypass the 
IOMMU when accessing defined regions of system memory.
In addition to passing on transactions from downstream devices, the IOMMU inserts transactions of 
its own to perform reads to and writes from system memory and to signal interrupts.
The IOMMU is allowed to cache page table and Device Table contents to speed up translations. An 
invalidation protocol is defined so that software can keep the cache contents consistent with memory 
when it updates the tables. When software initiates a suspend operation that does not preserve the 
state of the processor or chipset, the state of the IOMMU stored in registers is lost and must be 
restored as part of the resume sequence. 
When system software processes a PCI hot-plug notification, the ACPI tables should be inspected to 
determine the IOMMU that will service the peripheral and then program the IOMMU appropriately.
[AMD Public Use]
