284
Implementation Considerations
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
When a user process directly controls a single device, the total memory footprint for the device’s 
accesses is likely to be a modest fraction of the process’s own memory footprint. Moreover, the user 
process has direct knowledge of the specific device, so there is a good chance that the device’s access 
pattern is controllable for good locality. In this case the main consideration for achieving performance 
is to ensure that the IOMMU translation cache is large enough.
By contrast, the potential memory footprint of a virtual machine guest’s devices is the entire memory 
of the guest. Often the access pattern may be poorly controlled, as determined by the guest operating 
system’s workload (of which the HV likely has no specific knowledge), and, moreover, consists of 
interactions with a variety of devices under the control of different guest device drivers and subsys-
tems, with diverse memory allocation strategies. In the case of a non-paravirtualized guest, a HV’s 
strategy for improving performance is probably to set up I/O page tables using the largest available 
page size and assume that the IOMMU can share the same translation cache entries among multiple 
devices. It is for this reason that the IOMMU table structure includes a DomainID that can be shared 
for multiple DeviceIDs: since the IOMMU uses translation cache entries tagged by {DomainID, I/O 
virtual address} it automatically shares translations among multiple devices assigned to the same 
domain.
Based on these considerations, designers should consider a two-stage organization for the IOMMU 
translation cache:
•
The first stage should map DeviceID to {DomainID, I/O page table base address}. Most systems 
have only a few distinct DeviceIDs, so the capacity of the first stage can be small. The one 
complication is that DeviceIDs are not very random and tend to be clustered, so, to avoid 
conflicts, this stage should either be highly associative or use a good DeviceID hash function.
•
The second stage should map {DomainID, DVA} to {system physical address, protection}. This 
stage should have (at least) hundreds of entries. This stage should explicitly include the 
DomainID in set index hashing (rather than just using the DomainID as a tag), so that different 
domains with similar memory layouts do not compete for the same translation cache entries. 
(Server consolidation environments are likely to create many domains with very similar memory 
layouts.)
In addition, since the latency of IOMMU access to system memory can be high, implementers should 
consider a page directory cache (PDC) to accelerate processing of translation cache misses. This 
cache should map {DomainID, DVA} to page directory entry (PDE), so that the IOMMU can quickly 
calculate the address of the final PTE needed to resolve a translation cache miss. This way, most 
translation cache misses can be resolved in a single memory access by the IOMMU, rather than 
requiring a full multi-stage table walk. The page directory cache could also double as a large-page 
translation cache, since for large pages the PDE is also the PTE.
4.2 IOMMU Topologies
The IOMMU’s architecture is designed to accommodate a variety of system fabrics and topologies. 
There can be multiple IOMMUs, located at a variety of places in the system fabric. Some requestor 
ID information can be lost at bridges between busses or bus types, so it is advantageous to locate 
IOMMUs in bridges. The mapping of bus requesterIDs to IOMMU DeviceIDs depends on both the 
[AMD Public Use]
