52
Architecture
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
walk is terminated early, the event information reported is based on the results calculated in the com-
pleted portion of the walk, starting with the Device Table Entry (DTE).
Software Note: the TLB caching behavior of the IOMMU is not defined for an entry causing an 
event; some implementations may insert an entry in the TLB cache before verifying that it causes no 
exceptions. System software should invalidate the address that caused the event.
2.1.3.1
IOMMU Event Responses
The IOMMU response to events depends on the type of event detected, the type of transaction that 
caused the event, and the state of the IOMMU at the time of the event. 
If an IOMMU is not enabled or does not support address translation requests, the IOMMU responds 
to translation requests with a master abort. 
If the IOMMU is enabled, it can have one of three event responses:
•
For upstream transactions that are master aborted or target aborted, the PCI/Host bridge that is co-
located with the IOMMU is the completer of the transaction. Transactions that are target aborted 
set the legacy Signaled Target Abort bit in a manner consistent with the bus specification over 
which the transaction was received (secondary port). These aborted transactions should not set 
any AER bits (if implemented and otherwise applicable). 
•
Exceptions detected in transactions that target the IOMMU function are not logged in the 
IOMMU event log. The exceptions are signaled following the rules of the bus specification 
applicable to the primary bus with which the IOMMU function is associated.
•
Exceptions detected in the transactions originating from the IOMMU function signal the event 
following the rules of the bus specification applicable to the primary bus with which the IOMMU 
is associated. Additionally, exceptions in command buffer and table walk reads are logged in the 
IOMMU event log.
A transaction that attempts to use a Device Table entry beyond the end of the table is treated as in 
Table 44. The size of the Device Table is defined by the Device Table Base Address Register, MMIO 
Offset 0000h[Size].
2.1.3.2
I/O Page Faults
The IOMMU may detect page-fault conditions when processing peripheral requests and the response 
of the IOMMU depends on the type of the request and IOMMU control settings.
A peripheral’s memory transaction may result in an I/O page fault. These page faults can arise for a 
variety of reasons, such as I/O page table entries lacking sufficient permission or memory pages 
marked not-present. In a traditional processor virtual memory implementation, page faults activate an 
exception handler that has the option to correct the underlying problem and retry the faulting instruc-
tion. The IOMMU has no such option: the underlying data fabric and PCIe protocols do not provide a 
means for the IOMMU to signal a device that it should attempt to retry an access. Consequently, 
when the IOMMU detects an I/O page fault, it target aborts the faulting request. The IOMMU sets the 
legacy PCI Signaled Target Abort bit, if appropriate, and records I/O page fault information in its 
event log when event logging is enabled
For an address translation request, the IOMMU returns the translation result and does not signal a 
fault (see also Section 2.1.4.5 “Address Translation Requests in the Special Address Range” on 
[AMD Public Use]
