Implementation Considerations
285
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
bus type as well as the IOMMU’s location in the system fabric. In most other respects, the IOMMU’s 
behavior is bus-independent.
The most basic implementation of the IOMMU takes the form of a HyperTransportTM tunnel. 
Figure 86: IOMMU in a Tunnel
The advantage of this approach is that it can be easily retrofitted to an existing system design. The 
main limitation of this approach is that the HyperTransportTM specification defines only 5 bits of 
UnitID information to identify the originators of requests, so the IOMMU can provide distinct trans-
lations for at most 31 downstream devices. If downstream nodes include any bridges, the IOMMU is 
unable to distinguish between different devices beyond the bridges, since bridged requests use the 
UnitID of the bridge. 
A possible solution is to include a separate IOMMU on each downstream bus; each IOMMU can then 
be programmed not to rewrite transactions whose UnitID proves they have already passed through 
another IOMMU. Software must understand the system topology to correctly coordinate multiple 
IOMMUs. If a downstream HyperTransport device is a PCIe® root complex or a PCI-X® host bridge, 
the device can implement the RequesterID mapping capability to assign specific UnitIDs to PCIe or 
PCI-X devices.
An IOMMU implemented in a PCIe- or PCI-X-to-HyperTransport bridge can exploit the larger PCIe 
or PCI-X RequesterID namespace to provide better discrimination between downstream devices 
when translating requests:
Figure 87: IOMMU in a Peripheral Bus Bridge
Since most future commodity devices are expected to be on a PCIe bus, this is likely to be the most 
common implementation of the IOMMU for low-cost systems.
Large systems may want a scalable IOMMU building block. Such systems may choose to implement 
a hybrid HyperTransport tunnel / PCIe root complex component or a HyperTransport tunnel / PCI-X 
host bridge component combining the above ideas:
IOMMU
HyperTransportTM link
raw requests from devices
HyperTransport link
translated requests to host
UnitID[4:0]
DeviceID[15:0]
IOMMU
PCIe®/PCI-X® protocol
raw requests from devices
HyperTransportTM link
translated requests to host
Bus[7:0] Dev[4:0] Func[2:0]
DeviceID[15:0]
[AMD Public Use]
