Architecture
189
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
to by the GA Log head pointer and advances the head pointer to indicate that it has consumed the 
entry. After it advances the head pointer, it compares the new value of the head pointer to the current 
value of the tail pointer. (The IOMMU maintains a copy of its GA Log tail pointer in system memory 
at the system physical memory location pointed to by MMIO Offset 00E8h.) If the new value of the 
head pointer is equal to the tail pointer, there are no more entries in the log for system software to 
consume. If head and tail pointers are not equal, this indicates there are more entries in the GA Log.
When done processing one or more GA Log entries, system software writes the new value of the head 
pointer to the IOMMU head pointer register (MMIO Offset 2040h) to indicate to the IOMMU that the 
consumed entries in the GA Log have been freed up. The IOMMU uses this value to determine if the 
log is full. The GA Log is considered full if the tail pointer is pointing at the entry immediately below 
the head pointer. Note that since the buffer is circular that “below” does not always mean at a numer-
ically smaller offset. Since the tail pointer always points at the entry to be written next, the last entry 
(the one immediately below the head) in the circular buffer always remains unused. 
If the log is full at the time of the arrival of the virtual interrupt request, logging is suspended and 
MMIO Offset 2020h[GALOverflow] is set to 1. When this occurs software must intervene to resume 
logging.
Note that the IOMMU maintains a copy of the tail pointer register (MMIO Offset 2048h) in system 
memory at the location specified by the contents of the register MMIO Offset 00E8h to reduce the 
latency involved in reading the current value of the tail pointer from the internal register. 
The Guest Virtual APIC Log Base Address Register [MMIO Offset 00E0h] is used by system soft-
ware to assign the system physical address of the guest vAPIC log and to define its size. The guest 
vAPIC log occupies contiguous physical memory starting at the programmed base address up to the 
programmed size. The size of the guest virtual APIC log must be a multiple of 4 Kbytes (to facilitate 
“modulo N” indexing for circularity) and can be as large as 8192 entries (corresponding to a 64-Kbyte 
buffer). The base address of the GA log must be aligned to a multiple of 4 Kbytes.
System software uses the Guest Virtual APIC Log Tail Address Register [MMIO Offset 00E8h] to 
assign the system physical address of the location where IOMMU maintains the copy of the guest 
vAPIC Log tail pointer. 
Software is responsible to initialize the head and tail pointers to zero to create an empty log before 
enabling guest vAPIC event logging. When the head pointer and the tail pointer are equal, the guest 
virtual APIC event log is empty. 
To add an entry to the guest virtual APIC log, the IOMMU proceeds as follows:
1. Compare the GA Log head and tail pointers (MMIO Offset 2040h[GALogHead] and MMIO Off-
set 2048h[GALogTail]) to determine if the log is full.
Let Head = GALogHead >> 3, Tail = GALogTail >> 3, and Max = GA Log size >> 3.
If {(Head ≥ Tail) ? Tail : Tail + Max)} − Head = (Max − 1), then the log is full.
2. If the log is already full, set the overflow bit APIC log overflow and cease guest virtual APIC log-
ging.
3. If the log is not full, write a 64-bit log entry to the guest virtual APIC log in memory (see
Table 76).
[AMD Public Use]
