Registers
247
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
3.4.11 vIOMMU Status Register
This register indicates the current status of the vIOMMU
3.4.12Memory Access and Routing (MARC) Registers
The Memory Access Routing and Control (MARC) feature provides a fast static translation mecha-
nism that provides I/O device domain to system physical address translation with simple read-only or 
read / write access permissions. When a DVA emitted by an I/O device falls within one of the pro-
grammed and enabled MARC apertures, and access permissions match, the translation is applied and 
the remainder of the translation process is bypassed.
Support for the MARC feature is indicated by MMIO Offset 0030h[MarcSup] = 1.
If the I/O device domain address does not fall within any of the enabled MARC apertures, or if the 
access permissions do not match, the address is passed on to the remainder of the translation process.
This feature allows trusted system software to allocate several contiguous physical ranges for low-
latency graphics processing in virtualized systems.
Each aperture and its corresponding translation address with access permissions is set up by software 
by programming a set of three MARC aperture registers. These are the MARC Aperture Base Regis-
ter, Length Register, and Relocation Register. When supported, MARC provides either four or eight 
of these register tuples.
Implementation Note: The first revision 2.6 implementation provides four sets (four triplets) of these 
registers.
For each aperture, the base, relocation, and length registers are located in consecutive quadword-
aligned MMIO offsets. The following table lists these offsets.
MMIO Offset 0x190h vIOMMU Status Register
63
56 55
41 40 39
32
Reserved
31
8
7
3
2
1
0
Reserved
vCmdRun
IommuRun
Bits
Description
63:2
Reserved
1
vCmdRun:  RO. 1 = virtualized command buffers process are running. 0 = vIOMMU stop processing 
virtualized command buffers.
0
vIommuRun: RO. 1 = virtualized IOMMU functionality is running.  0 = virtualized IOMMU functionality is 
not running.
[AMD Public Use]
