Architecture
187
AMD I/O Virtualization Technology (IOMMU) Specification
48882-PUB—Rev 3.11—Apr 2026
Guest vAPIC logging is used to record device interrupt requests that could not be immediately deliv-
ered to the target virtual processor due the fact the target was not running. When logging is enabled 
and an interrupt request for a non-running virtual processor arrives from an I/O device, the IOMMU 
creates an entry in the GALog. This entry records the Device ID of the requesting device and the 
GATag of the target vAPIC. System software supplies the GATag by writing it in the appropriate 
IRTE of the Interrupt Remap Table for the device.
2.7.1
Guest vAPIC Virtual Interrupt Request Log
The guest vAPIC virtual interrupt request log (GA Log) is diagrammed in Figure 76 below. 
Figure 76: Guest vAPIC Log in System Memory
The GA Log is circular buffer in system physical memory that provides a queue of virtual interrupt 
requests waiting to be delivered to their target virtual processors. These virtual interrupt requests 
could not be delivered immediately due to the non-running state of the target virtual processor. Log 
entries identify the source of the virtual interrupt request and the target virtual processor. The source 
is identified using the Device ID of the device initiating the interrupt request. The target is recorded 
using the GATag value assigned by system software.
When the IOMMU receives a virtual interrupt request from an I/O device it records the request by 
updating the appropriate IRR bit of vAPIC backing page of the vAPIC associated with the target vir-
tual processor. If the target virtual processor is running at the time of the interrupt request, the 
IOMMU completes the delivery of the interrupt by sending a doorbell interrupt to the physical pro-
cessor that is hosting the virtual processor.
If the target virtual processor is not running, delivery of the interrupt must be deferred. Instead of 
Guest vAPIC Log entry
GALog Tail (copy)
Guest vAPIC Log entry
+0
+8
+ LogLen − 16
+ LogLen − 8
+ LogLen − 24
+ LogLen − 40
+ LogLen − 48
GALogHead
GALogBase
GALogTail
GATAddr
log base address
log size
head pointer
tail pointer address
SPA
SPA
(Offset)
(Offset)
(Offset)
IOMMU Registers
Software Variables
IOMMU logs virtual interrupt 
requests (when IsRun = 0)
IOMMU writes new log 
entries at tail pointer
Software reads log 
entries at head pointer
System Memory
+ LogLen − 32
IOMMU updates 
copy in memory
[AMD Public Use]
