Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
11.4.25 _TZM (Thermal Zone Member)
This optional object may exist under any device definition and evaluates to a reference to the thermal zone of which
the device is a member.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A Reference to the parent device
11.4.26 _TZP (Thermal Zone Polling)
This optional object evaluates to a recommended polling frequency (in tenths of seconds) for this thermal zone. A value
of zero indicates that OSPM does not need to poll the temperature of this thermal zone in order to detect temperature
changes (the hardware is capable of generating asynchronous notifications).
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the recommended polling frequency in tenths of seconds
The return value contains the recommended polling frequency, in tenths of seconds. A value of zero indicates that
polling is not necessary.
The _TZP value is specified as tenths of seconds with a 1 second granularity. For example, a _TZP value of 300 equals
30 seconds, while a value of 3000 equals 5 minutes. This is only a recommended value, and OSPM will consider other
factors when determining the actual polling frequency to use.
The use of polling is allowed but strongly discouraged by this specification. OEMs should design systems that asyn-
chronously notify OSPM whenever a meaningful change in the zone’s temperature occurs–relieving the OS of the
overhead associated with polling (see Detecting Temperature Changes for more details).
11.5 Native OS Device Driver Thermal Interfaces
OS implementations compatible with the ACPI 3.0 thermal model, interface with the thermal objects of a thermal zone
but also comprehend the thermal zone devices’ OS native device driver interfaces that perform similar functions to the
thermal objects at the device level.
The recommended native OS device driver thermal interfaces that enable OSPM to perform optimal performance /
thermal management include:
• Reading a value from a device’s embedded thermal sensor
• Reading a value that indicates whether temperature and trip point values are reported in absolute or relative
temperatures
• Setting the platform’s cooling mode policy setting
• Reading the embedded thermal sensor’s threshold
• Reading the device’s active and passive cooling temperature trip points
• Reading the device’s association to a thermal zone
• Signaling the crossing of a thermal trip point
11.5. Native OS Device Driver Thermal Interfaces
749
