Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
OSPM supports enhancements over the existing RTC device (which only supports a 99 year date and 24-hour alarm).
Optional extensions are provided for the following features:
Day Alarm
The DAY_ALRM field points to an optional CMOS RAM location that selects the day within the month to
generate an RTC alarm.
Month Alarm
The MON_ALRM field points to an optional CMOS RAM location that selects the month within the year to
generate an RTC alarm.
Centenary Value
The CENT field points to an optional CMOS RAM location that represents the centenary value of the date
(thousands and hundreds of years).
The RTC_STS bit may be set through the RTC interrupt (IRQ8 in IA-PC architecture systems). OSPM will insure
that the periodic and update interrupt sources are disabled prior to sleeping. This allows the RTC’s interrupt pin to
serve as the source for the RTC_STS bit generation. Note however that if the RTC interrupt pin is used for RTC_STS
generation, the RTC_STS bit value may not be accurate when waking from S4. If this value is accurate when waking
from S4, the platform should set the S4_RTC_STS_VALID flag, so that OSPM can utilize the RTC_STS information.
Table 4.10: Alarm Field Decodings within the FADT
Field
Value
Address (Location) in RTC CMOS
RAM (Must be Bank 0)
DAY_ALRM
Eight bit value that can represent 0x01-0x31
days in BCD or 0x01-0x1F days in binary. Bits 6
and 7 of this field are treated as Ignored by
software. The RTC is initialized such that this
field contains a “don’t care” value when the
platform firmware switches from legacy to
ACPI mode. A don’t care value can be any
unused value (not 0x1-0x31 BCD or 0x01-0x1F
hex) that the RTC reverts back to a 24 hour
alarm.
The DAY_ALRM field in the FADT will
contain a non-zero value that represents
an offset into the RTC’s CMOS RAM area
that contains the day alarm value. A value
of zero in the DAY_ALRM field indicates
that the day alarm feature is not
supported.
MON_ALRM
Eight bit value that can represent 01-12
months in BCD or 0x01-0xC months in binary.
The RTC is initialized such that this field
contains a don’t care value when the platform
firmware switches from legacy to ACPI mode.
A “don’t care” value can be any unused value
(not 1-12 BCD or x01-xC hex) that the RTC
reverts back to a 24 hour alarm and/or 31 day
alarm).
The MON_ALRM field in the FADT will
contain a non-zero value that represents
an offset into the RTC’s CMOS RAM area
that contains the month alarm value. A
value of zero in the MON_ALRM field
indicates that the month alarm feature is
not supported. If the month alarm is
supported, the day alarm function must
also be supported.
continues on next page
4.8. ACPI Register Model
76
