Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5.2.11.3 Persistent System Description Table (PSDT)
The table signature, “PSDT” refers to the Persistent System Description Table (PSDT) defined in the ACPI 1.0 speci-
fication. The PSDT was judged to provide no specific benefit and as such has been deleted from follow-on versions of
the ACPI specification. OSPM will evaluate a table with the “PSDT” signature in like manner to the evaluation of an
SSDT as described in Section 5.2.11.2
5.2.12 Multiple APIC Description Table (MADT)
The ACPI interrupt model describes all interrupts for the entire system in a uniform interrupt model implementation.
Supported interrupt models include:
• The PC-AT-compatible dual 8259 interrupt controller.
• For Intel processor-based systems: the Intel Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC) and Intel
Streamlined Advanced Programmable Interrupt.
• For ARM processor-based systems: the Generic Interrupt Controller (GIC).
• For LoongArch processor-based systems: the LoongArch Programmable Interrupt Controller (LPIC).
• For RISC-V processor-based systems: the RISC-V Interrupt Controller (RINTC).
The choice of interrupt model(s) to support is up to the platform designer. The interrupt model cannot be dynamically
changed by system firmware; OSPM will choose which model to use and install support for that model at the time of
installation. If a platform supports multiple models, an OS will install support for only one of the models and will not
mix models. Multi-boot capability is a feature in many modern operating systems. This means that a system may have
multiple operating systems or multiple instances of an OS installed at any one time. Platform designers must allow for
this.
This section describes the format of the Multiple APIC Description Table (MADT), which provides OSPM with infor-
mation necessary for operation on systems with APIC, SAPIC, GIC, or LPIC implementations.
ACPI represents all interrupts as “flat” values known as Global System Interrupts. Therefore to support APICs, SAPICs,
GICs, or LPICs on an ACPI-enabled system, each used interrupt input must be mapped to the Global System Interrupt
value used by ACPI. See Global System Interrupts for more details.
Additional support is required to handle various multi-processor functions that implementations might support (for
example, identifying each processor’s local interrupt controller ID).
All addresses in the MADT are processor-relative physical addresses.
Starting with ACPI Specification 6.3, the use of the Processor() object was deprecated. Only legacy systems should
continue with this usage. On the Itanium architecture only, a _UID is provided for the Processor() that is a string object.
This usage of _UID is also deprecated since it can preclude an OSPM from being able to match a processor to a non-
enumerable device, such as those defined in the MADT. From ACPI Specification 6.3 onward, all processor objects for
all architectures except Itanium must now use Device() objects with an _HID of ACPI0007, and use only integer _UID
values.
Table 5.19: Multiple APIC Description Table (MADT) Format
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Header
Signature
4
0
‘APIC’ Signature for the Multiple APIC Description Table.
continues on next page
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
133
