Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
NVDIMM
Non Volatile Dual In-line Memory Module.
Object
The nodes of the ACPI Namespace are objects inserted in the tree by the OS using the information in the system
definition tables. These objects can be data objects, package objects, control method objects, and so on. Package
objects refer to other objects. Objects also have type, size, and relative name.
Object name
Part of the ACPI Namespace. There is a set of rules for naming objects.
Operating System-directed Power Management (OSPM)
A model of power (and system) management in which the OS plays a central role and uses global information to
optimize system behavior for the task at hand.
Option ROM Firmware
Legacy term for boot firmware typically executed on a host processor which is used by a device during the
boot process. Option ROM firmware may be included with the host processor boot firmware or may be carried
separately by a device (such as an add-in card). See also: Expansion ROM Firmware
Package
An array of objects.
Peripheral
A peripheral (also known as an external device) is a device which resides physically external to a platform and
is connected to a platform, either wired or wirelessly. A peripheral is comprised of its own devices which may
have their own firmware.
Persistent Memory (pmem)
Byte-addressable memory that retains its contents across power loss.
Platform
A platform consists of multiple devices assembled and working together to deliver a specific computing function,
but does not include any other software other than the firmware as part of the devices in the platform. Examples
of platforms include a notebook, a desktop, a server, a network switch, a blade, etc. - all without and independent
of any operating system, user applications, or user data.
Platform Boot Firmware
The collection of all boot firmware on a platform. This firmware is initially loaded by a platform (such as an
SoC, a motherboard, or a complete system) at power-on to do basic initialization of the platform hardware and
then hand control to a boot loader or OS. In some cases this will be x86 BIOS, or it may be UEFI Core System
BIOS, or it could be something else entirely. Once control has been handed over to a boot loader or an OS, this
firmware has no further role.
Platform Runtime Firmware
The collection of all run-time firmware on a platform. This is firmware that can provide functions that can be
invoked by an OS, but those functions are still concerned only with the platform hardware (e.g., PSCI on ARM).
The assumption is that platform boot firmware has since been superseded by the OS since the OS is now up and
running, but that there is still a need for an OS to access specific features of hardware that may only be possible
via firmware.
Platform Firmware
The collection of platform boot firmware and platform runtime firmware.
Power Button
A user push button or other switch contact device that switches the system from the sleeping/soft off state to the
working state, and signals the OS to transition to a sleeping/soft off state from the working state.
Power Management
Mechanisms in software and hardware to minimize system power consumption, manage system thermal limits,
2.1. General ACPI Terminology
21
