Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
The granularity of the sampling period is 0.1 seconds. For example, if the sampling period is 30.0 seconds, then _TSP
needs to report 300; if the sampling period is 0.5 seconds, then it will report 5. OSPM can normalize the sampling
over a longer period if necessary.
If both _TFP and _TSP are present in a Thermal Zone, _TFP overrides _TSP. Platforms which need to support legacy
operating systems from before _TFP in ACPI 6.0 must specify a _TSP if a sampling period is required. OS support for
_TFP can be discovered via _OSC (see Platform-Wide _OSC Capabilities DWORD 2).
11.4.23 _TST (Temperature Sensor Threshold)
This optional object may be present under a device and is evaluated by OSPM to determine the minimum separation
for a devices’ programmable temperature trip points. When a device contains multiple programmable temperature trip
points, it may not be necessary for OSPM to poll the device’s temperature after crossing a temperature trip point when
performing passive cooling control policy.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the sensor threshold (in tenths of degrees Kelvin)
To eliminate polling, the device can program intermediate trip points of interest (higher or lower than the current tem-
perature) and signal the crossing of the intermediate trip points to OSPM. The distance between the current temperature
and these intermediate trip points may be platform specific and must be set far enough away from the current temper-
ature so as to not to miss the crossing of a meaningful temperature point. The _TST object conveys the recommended
minimum separation between the current temperature and an intermediate temperature trip point to OSPM.
11.4.24 _TZD (Thermal Zone Devices)
This optional object evaluates to a package of device names. Each name corresponds to a device in the ACPI namespace
that is associated with the thermal zone. The temperature reported by the thermal zone is roughly correspondent to that
of each of the devices.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A variable-length Package containing a list of References to thermal zone devices
The list of devices returned by the control method need not be a complete and absolute list of devices affected by the
thermal zone. However, the package should at least contain the devices that would uniquely identify where this thermal
zone is located in the machine. For example, a thermal zone in a docking station should include a device in the docking
station, a thermal zone for the CD-ROM bay, should include the CD-ROM.
11.4. Thermal Objects
748
