Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
3.7.1 Device Configuration Example: Configuring the Modem
Returning to the modem device example above, the OS will find the modem and load a driver for it when the OS finds
it in the DSDT. This table will have control methods that give the OS the following information:
• The device can use IRQ 3, I/O 3F8-3FF or IRQ 4, I/O 2E8-2EF
• The device is currently using IRQ 3, I/O 3F8-3FF
The OS configures the modem’s hardware resources using Plug and Play algorithms. It chooses one of the supported
configurations that does not conflict with any other devices. Then, OSPM configures the device for those resources by
running a control method supplied in the modem’s section of the Differentiated Definition Block. This control method
will write to any I/O ports or memory addresses necessary to configure the device to the given resources.
3.7.2 NUMA Nodes
Systems employing a Non Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) architecture contain collections of hardware resources
including processors, memory, and I/O buses, that comprise what is commonly known as a “NUMA node”. Processor
accesses to memory or I/O resources within the local NUMA node is generally faster than processor accesses to memory
or I/O resources outside of the local NUMA node. ACPI defines interfaces that allow the platform to convey NUMA
node topology information to OSPM both statically at boot time and dynamically at run time as resources are added or
removed from the system.
3.8 System Events
ACPI includes a general event model used for Plug and Play, Thermal, and Power Management events. There are two
registers that make up the event model: an event status register and an event enable register.
When an event occurs, the core logic sets a bit in the status register to indicate the event. If the corresponding bit in
the enable register is set, the core logic will assert the SCI to signal the OS. When the OS receives this interrupt, it
will run the control methods corresponding to any bits set in the event status register. These control methods use AML
commands to tell the OS what event occurred.
For example, assume a machine has all of its Plug and Play, Thermal, and Power Management events connected to
the same pin in the core logic. The event status and event enable registers would only have one bit each: the bit
corresponding to the event pin.
When the system is docked, the core logic sets the status bit and signals the SCI. The OS, seeing the status bit set, runs
the control method for that bit. The control method checks the hardware and determines the event was a docking event
(for example). It then signals to the OS that a docking event has occurred, and can tell the OS specifically where in the
device hierarchy the new devices will appear.
Since the event model registers are generalized, they can describe many different platform implementations. The single
pin model above is just one example. Another design might have Plug and Play, Thermal, and Power Management events
wired to three different pins so there would be three status bits (and three enable bits). Yet another design might have
every individual event wired to its own pin and status bit. This design, at the opposite extreme from the single pin
design, allows very complex hardware, yet very simple control methods. Countless variations in wiring up events are
possible. However, note that care must be taken to ensure that if events share a signal that the event that generated the
signal can be determined in the corresponding event handling control method allowing the proper device notification
to be sent.
3.8. System Events
41
