Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
On systems that are not HW-reduced ACPI platforms, an alternate mechanism for entering and exiting the S4 state is
defined. This mechanism passes control to the platform runtime firmware to save and restore platform context. Context
ownership is similar in definition to the S3 state, but hardware saves and restores the context of memory to non-volatile
storage (such as a disk drive), and OSPM treats this as an S4 state with implied latency and power constraints. This
alternate mechanism of entering the S4 state is referred to as the S4BIOS transition.
Prior to entering a sleeping state (S1-S4), OSPM will execute OEM-specific AML/ASL code contained in the _PTS
(Prepare To Sleep) control method. One use of the _PTS control method is that it can indicate to the embedded
controller what sleeping state the system will enter. The embedded controller can then respond by executing the proper
power-plane sequencing upon sleep state entry.
The _WAK (Wake) control method is then executed. This control method again contains OEM-specific AML/ASL
code. One use of the _WAK control method requests OSPM to check the platform for any devices that might have been
added or removed from the system while the system was asleep. For example, a PC Card controller might have had a
PC Card added or removed, and because the power to this device was off in the sleeping state, the status change event
was not generated.
This section discusses the system initialization sequence of an ACPI-enabled platform. This includes the boot sequence,
different wake scenarios, and an example to illustrate how to use the system address map reporting interfaces. This
sequence is part of the ACPI event programming model.
ò Note
HW-reduced ACPI platforms do not implement the Legacy Mode nor the S4BIOS state described below.
For detailed information on the power management control methods described above, see Power and Performance
Management
16.1 Sleeping States
The illustration below shows the transitions between the working state, the sleeping states, and the Soft Off state.
ACPI defines distinct differences between the G0 and G1 system states.
• In the G0 state, work is being performed by the OS/application software and the hardware. The CPU or any
particular hardware device could be in any one of the defined power states (C0-C3 or D0-D3); however, some
work will be taking place in the system.
• In the G1 state, the system is assumed to be doing no work. Prior to entering the G1 state, OSPM will place
devices in a device power state compatible with the system sleeping state to be entered; if a device is enabled to
wake the system, then OSPM will place these devices into the lowest Dx state from which the device supports
wake. This is defined in the power resource description of that device object. This definition of the G1 state
implies:
• The CPUs execute no instructions in the G1 state.
• Hardware devices are not operating (except possibly to generate a wake event).
• If not HW-reduced, ACPI registers are affected as follows:
– Wake event bits are enabled in the corresponding fixed or general-purpose registers according to enabled
wake options.
– PM1 control register is programmed for the desired sleeping state.
– WAK_STS is set by hardware in the sleeping state.
16.1. Sleeping States
824
