Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
3.11.3 Connection Resources
General-purpose I/O (GPIO) and Simple Peripheral Bus (SPB) controllers are hardware resources provided in silicon
solutions to enable flexible configuration of a broad range of system designs. These controllers can provide input,
output, interrupt and serial communication connections to arbitrary devices in a system. The function to which one
of these connections is put depends on the specific device involved and the needs of the platform design. In order to
support these platform technologies, ACPI defines a general abstraction for flexible connections.
In order to maintain compatibility with existing software models, ACPI abstracts these connections as hardware re-
sources.
The Connection Resource abstraction mirrors the hardware functionality of GPIO and SPB controllers. Like other
resources, these connections are allocated and configured before use. With the resources described by the platform,
OSPM abstracts the underlying configuration from device drivers. Drivers, then, can be written for the device’s function
only, and reused with that functional hardware regardless of how it is integrated into a given system.
The key aspects of the Connection Resource abstraction are:
• GPIO and SPB controllers are enumerated as devices in the ACPI Namespace.
• GPIO Connection and SPB Connection resource types are defined.
• Namespace devices that are connected to GPIO or SPB controllers use Resource Template Macros to add Con-
nection Resources to their resource methods (_CRS, _SRS, etc.).
• GPIO Connection Resources can be designated by the platform for use as GPIO-signaled ACPI Events.
• Connection Resources can be used by AML methods to access pins and peripherals through GPIO and SPB
operation regions.
3.11.3.1 Supported Platforms
The HW-reduced ACPI and Low power S0 Idle Capable flags combine to represent 4 platform types that can be imple-
mented. The following table enumerates these, as well as the intended OSPM behavior and specific platform require-
ments.
Table 3.3: Implementable Platform Types
Low
Power
S0 Idle Capa-
ble
Hardware-
reduced
ACPI
OSPM Behavior
Platform Implementation
0
0
Fixed hardware interface accessed for
features, events and system power
management.
Optionally accesses
GPIO-signaled ACPI events if im-
plemented in ACPI FW. Traditional
Sleep/Resume power management.
Implement Fixed-feature hardware in-
terface. Optionally implements GPIO-
signaled ACPI events.
0
1
Fixed-feature hardware interface not
accessed. Sleep/Resume Power Man-
agement using FADT SLEEP_*_REG
fields and Interrupt-based wake signal-
ing.
Implement
GPIO-signaled
ACPI
Events;
Implement software alter-
natives to any ACPI fixed features,
including the Sleep registers.
Im-
plement wake-capable interrupts for
wake events.
continues on next page
3.11. Flexible Platform Architecture Support
50
