Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
7.3.10 _PR2 (Power Resources for D2)
This object evaluates to a list of power resources upon which this device is dependent when it is in the D2 state. For
OSPM to transition the device into the D2 state, the following must occur, in order:
1. If present, the _PS2 control method is executed to set the device into the D2 device state.
2. All Power Resources referenced by elements 1 through N must be in the ON state.
3. All Power Resources no longer referenced by any device in the system must be in the OFF state.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A variable-length Package containing a list of References to power resources.
_PR2 must return the same data each time it is evaluated. All power resources referenced must exist in the namespace.
7.3.11 _PR3 (Power Resources for D3hot)
This object evaluates to a list of power resources upon which this device is dependent when it is in the D3hot state. For
OSPM to transition the device into the D3hot state, the following must occur, in order:
1. If present, the _PS3 control method is executed to set the device into the D3hot device state.
2. All Power Resources referenced by elements 1 through N must be in the ON state.
3. All Power Resources no longer referenced by any device in the system must be in the OFF state.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A variable-length Package containing a list of References to power resources.
_PR3 must return the same data each time it is evaluated. All power resources referenced must exist in the namespace.
Interaction between _PR3 and entry to D3/D3hot (only applicable if platform and OSPM have performed the necessary
handshake via _OSC):
• Platform/drivers must assume that the device will have power completely removed when the device is placed into
D3 via _PS3
• It is up to OSPM to determine whether to use D3 or D3hot. If there is a _PR3 for the device, it is up to OSPM
to decide whether to keep those power resources on or off after executing _PS3. The decision may be based on
other factors (e.g., being armed for wake).
7.3. Device Power Management Objects
498
