Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 7.1 – continued from previous page
Power mgmt function
to be performed
System
entity
performing it
Platform info re-
quired
Object providing
information
Comments
Enter a selected system
state
OSPM
Control
mecha-
nisms for system
states
_PTS, _TTS and
_WAK
If _S5 exists, ACPI uses
the SLP_TYP/SLP_EN
bit fields in the PM1
Control Register (or the
SLEEP_CONTROL/
SLEEP_STATUS
reg-
isters specified in the
FADT). If _S5 is not
specified,
alternative
methods are used to
turn-off the system.
ò Note
Support for Low-power Idle states requires the use of power resources to describe the device state and wake depen-
dencies. See Processor Aggregator Device and _LPI (Low Power Idle States).
7.2 Declaring a Power Resource Object
An ASL PowerResource statement is used to declare a PowerResource object. A Power Resource object refers to
a software-controllable power plane, clock plane, or other resource upon which an integrated ACPI power-managed
device might rely. Power resource objects can appear wherever is convenient in the namespace.
The syntax of a PowerResource statement is:
PowerResource (resourcename, systemlevel, resourceorder) {TermList}
where the systemlevel parameter is a number and the resourceorder parameter is a numeric constant (a WORD). For a
formal definition of the PowerResource statement syntax, see Section 7.2.
Systemlevel is the deepest system sleep level OSPM must maintain to keep this power resource on (0 equates to S0, 1
equates to S1, and so on).
Each power-managed ACPI device lists the resources it requires for its supported power states. OSPM multiplexes this
information from all devices and then enables and disables the required Power Resources accordingly. The resource-
order field in the Power Resource object is a value per Power Resource that provides the system with the order in which
Power Resources must be enabled or disabled. Each unique resourceorder value represents a level, and any number of
power resources may have the same level. Power Resource levels are enabled from low values to high values and are
disabled from high values to low values. The operating software enables or disables all Power Resources in any one
resourceorder level at a time before moving on to the next ordered level. Putting Power Resources in different order
levels provides power sequencing and serialization where required. Note that no ordering is guaranteed within each
level (i.e. between Power Resources with the same resourceorder value).
A Power Resource can have named objects under its Namespace location. For a description of the ACPI-defined named
objects for a Power Resource, see Device Power Management Objects
The power management object list is encoded as TermList, so that rather than describing a static power management
object list, it is possible to describe a dynamic power management object list according to the system settings. See
“Definition Block Loading.
7.2. Declaring a Power Resource Object
490
