Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.224 – continued from previous page
Component
Description
ACPI AML code general-purpose event
model
A model that allows OEM AML code to use GPEx_STS events. This
includes using GPEx_STS events as “wake” sources as well as other
general service events defined by the OEM (“button pressed,” “ther-
mal event,” “device present/not present changed,” and so on).
ACPI device-specific model events
Devices in the ACPI namespace that have ACPI-specific device IDs
can provide additional event model functionality. In particular, the
ACPI embedded controller device provides a generic event model.
ACPI Embedded Controller event model
A model that allows OEM AML code to use the response from the
Embedded Controller Query command to provide general-service
event defined by the OEM.
5.6.2 Types of ACPI Events
At the ACPI hardware level, two types of events can be signaled by an SCI interrupt:
• Fixed ACPI events
• General-purpose events
In turn, the general-purpose events can be used to provide further levels of events to the system. And, as in the case of
the embedded controller, a well-defined second-level event dispatching is defined to make a third type of typical ACPI
event. For the flexibility common in today’s designs, two first-level general-purpose event blocks are defined, and the
embedded controller construct allows a large number of embedded controller second-level event-dispatching tables to
be supported. Then if needed, the OEM can also build additional levels of event dispatching by using AML code on a
general-purpose event to sub-dispatch in an OEM defined manner.
5.6.3 Fixed Event Handling
When OSPM receives a fixed ACPI event, it directly reads and handles the event registers itself. The following table
lists the fixed ACPI events. For a detailed specification of each event, see the ACPI Hardware Specification
Table 5.225: Fixed ACPI Events
Event
Comment
Power management timer carry bit set.
For more information, see the description of the TMR_STS and TMR_EN
bits of the PM1x fixed register block in PM1 Event Grouping
Power button signal
A power button can be supplied in two ways. One way is to simply use the
fixed status bit, and the other uses the declaration of an ACPI power device
and AML code to determine the event. For more information about the
alternate-device based power button, see Control Method Power Button.
Notice that during the S0 state, both the power and sleep buttons merely
notify OSPM that they were pressed. If the system does not have a sleep
button, it is recommended that OSPM use the power button to initiate sleep
operations as requested by the user.
Sleep button signal
A sleep button can be supplied in one of two ways. One way is to simply
use the fixed status button. The other way requires the declaration of an
ACPI sleep button device and AML code to determine the event.
continues on next page
5.6. ACPI Event Programming Model
328
