Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
4.8.2.2.1.3 Power Button Override
The ACPI specification also allows that if the user presses the power button for more than four seconds while the system
is in the working state, a hardware event is generated and the system will transition to the soft-off state. This hardware
event is called a power button override. In reaction to the power button override event, the hardware clears the power
button status bit (PWRBTN_STS).
4.8.2.2.2 Sleep Button
When using the two button model, ACPI supports a second button that when pressed will request OSPM to transition
the platform between the G0 working and G1 sleeping states. Support for a sleep button is indicated by a combination
of the SLEEP_BUTTON flag and the sleep button device object:
Table 4.9: Sleep Button Support
Indicated Support
SLEEP_BUTTON Flag
Sleep Button Device Object
No sleep button
Set
Absent
Fixed hardware sleep button
Clear
Absent
Control method sleep button
Set
Present
4.8.2.2.2.1 Fixed Hardware Sleep Button
Fig. 4.9: Fixed Hardware Sleep Button Logic
The fixed hardware sleep button has its event programming model in the PM1x_EVT_BLK. This logic consists of a
single enable bit and sticky status bit. When the user presses the sleep button, the sleep button status bit (SLPBTN_STS)
is unconditionally set. Additionally, if the sleep button enable bit (SLPBTN_EN) is set, and the sleep button status bit
is set (SLPBTN_STS, due to a button press) while the system is in the G0 state, then an SCI is generated. OSPM
responds to the event by clearing the SLPBTN_STS bit. The sleep button logic provides debounce logic that sets the
SLPBTN_STS bit on the button press “edge.”
While the system is sleeping (in either the S0, S1, S2, S3 or S4 states), any further sleep button press (after the button
press that caused the system transition into the sleeping state) sets the sleep button status bit (SLPBTN_STS) and wakes
the system if the SLP_EN bit is set. OSPM responds by clearing the sleep button status bit and waking the system.
4.8. ACPI Register Model
72
