Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
12.2.2 Embedded Controller Command, EC_SC (W)
This is a write-only register that allows commands to be issued to the embedded controller. Writes to this port are
latched in the input data register and the input buffer full flag is set in the status register. Writes to this location also
cause the command bit to be set in the status register. This allows the embedded controller to differentiate the start of
a command sequence from a data byte write operation.
12.2.3 Embedded Controller Data, EC_DATA (R/W)
This is a read/write register that allows additional command bytes to be issued to the embedded controller, and allows
OSPM to read data returned by the embedded controller. Writes to this port by the host are latched in the input data
register, and the input buffer full flag is set in the status register. Reads from this register return data from the output
data register and clear the output buffer full flag in the status register.
12.3 Embedded Controller Command Set
The embedded controller command set allows OSPM to communicate with the embedded controllers. ACPI defines
the commands and their byte encodings for use with the embedded controller that are shown in the following table.
Table 12.3: Embedded Controller Commands
Embedded Controller Command
Command Byte Encoding
Read Embedded Controller (RD_EC)
0x80
Write Embedded Controller (WR_EC)
0x81
Burst Enable Embedded Controller (BE_EC)
0x82
Burst Disable Embedded Controller (BD_EC)
0x83
Query Embedded Controller (QR_EC)
0x84
12.3.1 Read Embedded Controller, RD_EC (0x80)
This command byte allows OSPM to read a byte in the address space of the embedded controller. This command byte
is reserved for exclusive use by OSPM, and it indicates to the embedded controller to generate SCIs in response to
related transactions (that is, IBF=0 or OBF=1 in the EC Status Register), rather than SMIs. This command consists of
a command byte written to the Embedded Controller Command register (EC_SC), followed by an address byte written
to the Embedded Controller Data register (EC_DATA). The embedded controller then returns the byte at the addressed
location. The data is read at the data port after the OBF flag is set.
12.3.2 Write Embedded Controller, WR_EC (0x81)
This command byte allows OSPM to write a byte in the address space of the embedded controller. This command
byte is reserved for exclusive use by OSPM, and it indicates to the embedded controller to generate SCIs in response
to related transactions (that is, IBF=0 or OBF=1 in the EC Status Register), rather than SMIs. This command allows
OSPM to write a byte in the address space of the embedded controller. It consists of a command byte written to the
Embedded Controller Command register (EC_SC), followed by an address byte written to the Embedded Controller
Data register (EC_DATA), followed by a data byte written to the Embedded Controller Data Register (EC_DATA); this
is the data byte written at the addressed location.
12.3. Embedded Controller Command Set
765
