Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 2: Fig. i-2 - ACPI Structure
either have a directly defined value, or be evaluated by the AML interpreter. The AML interpreter, directed by the OS,
evaluates objects and then interfaces with system hardware to perform necessary operations.
The definition block byte code is compiled from the ACPI Source Language (ASL) code. ASL is the language used
to define ACPI objects and to write control methods. An ASL compiler translates ASL into ACPI Machine Language
(AML) byte code. AML is the language processed by the AML interpreter, as shown in figure i-3.
ACPI Source Language (ASL) code is used to define objects and control methods. Then the ASL compiler translates
ASL into ACPI Machine Language (AML) byte code contained within ACPI definition Blocks. Definition blocks
consist of an identifying table header and byte code that is executable by an AML interpreter.
The AML interpreter executes byte code and evaluates objects in the definition blocks to allow the byte code to perform
loop constructs, conditional evaluations, access defined address spaces, and perform other operations that applications
require. The AML interpreter has read/write access to defined address spaces, including system memory, I/O, PCI
configuration, and more. It accesses these address spaces by defining entry points called objects. Objects can either
have a directly defined value or else must be evaluated and interpreted by the AML interpreter.
This collection of enumerable objects is an OS construct called the ACPI namespace. The namespace is a hierarchical
representation of the ACPI devices on a system. The system bus is the root of enumeration for these ACPI devices.
Devices that are enumerable on other buses, like PCI or USB devices, are usually not enumerated in the namespace.
Instead, their own buses enumerate the devices and load their drivers. However, all enumerable buses have an encoding
technique that allows ACPI to encode the bus-specific addresses of the devices so they can be found in ACPI, even
though ACPI usually does not load drivers for these devices.
Generally, devices that have a _HID object (hardware identification object) are enumerated and have their drivers loaded
by ACPI. Devices that have an _ADR object (physical address object) are usually not enumerated by ACPI and generally
do not have their drivers loaded by ACPI. _ADR devices usually can perform all necessary functions without involving
ACPI, but in cases where the device driver cannot perform a function, or if the driver needs to communicate to system
firmware, ACPI can evaluate objects to perform the needed function.
As an example of this, PCI does not support native hotplug. However, PCI can use ACPI to evaluate objects and define
CONTENTS
lxiv
