Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
the platform specific interface. If OSPM uses both interfaces a platform should, but is not required, to prioritize the
information coming from the platform specific interface over the information provided through the CPPC interface.
Table 8.24: Resource Priority Register Descriptor Package Values
Element
Object Type
Description
ControlledResources
Package (Integer Ar-
ray)
Provides an array of Resource Type IDs that inform
OSPM what shared system resources are controlled by
this register. A Resource Type ID must only be present
in a single Resource Priority Register Descriptor.
EnableValue
Integer
(DWORD)
or Buffer
Optional. Provides the value that OSPM must write into
the EnableRegister to enable this resource priority reg-
ister. If this element is an Integer, OSPM reads the value
directly. If this element is a Buffer, it must contain a
resource descriptor with a single Register() to read the
value from.
EnableRegister
Buffer
Optional. If supported, contains a resource descriptor
with a single Register() descriptor that describes the reg-
ister in which to write the EnableValue. If provided, then
EnableValue must also be provided.
PriorityCount
Integer
(DWORD)
or Buffer
Contains the total number of distinct priorities that are
available for this resource priority register. If this ele-
ment is an Integer, OSPM reads the value directly. If
this element is a Buffer, it must contain a resource de-
scriptor with a single Register() to read the value from.
This value must be greater than or equal to 2.
PriorityRegister
Buffer
Contains a resource descriptor with a single Register()
in which to write the desired priority for this processor.
8.4.6.1.2.8 Controlled Resources
This package contains a list of Resource Type IDs that inform OSPM what shared system resources are controlled by
this Resource Priority Register. The valid Resource Type IDs are defined in Table 8.25. OSPM should not consider
any Resource Type ID that is unknown and should only make priority decisions based on known Resource Type IDs.
For example, if the platform describes a Resource Priority Register with both a known and an unknown Resource Type
ID, OSPM should ignore the unknown Resource Type ID and only make decisions on the known Resource Type ID.
Similarly, if the platform describes a Resource Priority Register with only unknown Resource Type IDs, OSPM should
not enable or use that Resource Priority Register.
Table 8.25: Resource Type IDs
Resource Type
Resource Type ID
Description
Processor Boost
0x00000001
This resource type indicates that the register controls this
processor’s priority for receiving additional boost fre-
quencies above the OSPM Nominal Performance level.
Processors with a higher priority should be given addi-
tional boost first.
Processor Throttle
0x00000002
This resource type indicates that the register controls this
processor’s priority for being frequency throttled below
the OSPM Nominal Performance level. Processors with
a higher priority should be throttled last.
continues on next page
8.4. Declaring Processors
580
