Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
1.4 OEM Implementation Strategy
Any OEM is, as always, free to build hardware as they see fit. Given the existence of the ACPI specification, two
general implementation strategies are possible:
• An original equipment manufacturer (OEM) can adopt the OS vendor-provided ACPI OSPM software and im-
plement the hardware part of the ACPI specification (for a given platform) in one of many possible ways.
• An OEM can develop a driver and hardware that are not ACPI-compatible. This strategy opens up even more
hardware implementation possibilities. However, OEMs who implement hardware that is OSPM-compatible but
not ACPI-compatible will bear the cost of developing, testing, and distributing drivers for their implementation.
1.5 Power and Sleep Buttons
OSPM provides a new appliance interface to consumers. In particular, it provides for a sleep button that is a “soft”
button that does not turn the machine physically off but signals the OS to put the machine in a soft off or sleeping state.
ACPI defines two types of these “soft” buttons: one for putting the machine to sleep and one for putting the machine
in soft off.
This gives the OEM two different ways to implement machines: A one-button model or a two-button model. The one-
button model has a single button that can be used as a power button or a sleep button as determined by user settings.
The two-button model has an easily accessible sleep button and a separate power button. In either model, an override
feature that forces the machine to the soft-off state without OSPM interaction is also needed to deal with various rare,
but problematic, situations.
1.6 ACPI Specification and the Structure of ACPI
This specification defines ACPI hardware interfaces, ACPI software interfaces and ACPI data structures. This specifi-
cation also defines the semantics of these interfaces.
Fig. 1.1 below lays out the software and hardware components for OSPM/ACPI, and how they relate to each other. This
specification describes the interfaces between components, the contents of the ACPI System Description Tables, and
the related semantics of the other ACPI components. Notice that the ACPI System Description Tables, which describe
a particular platform’s hardware, are at heart of the ACPI implementation and the role of the ACPI System Firmware
is primarily to supply the ACPI Tables (rather than a native instruction API).
ACPI is not a software specification; it is not a hardware specification, although it addresses both software and hardware
and how they must behave. ACPI is, instead, an interface specification comprised of both software and hardware
elements.
There are three run-time components to ACPI:
ACPI System Description Tables
Describes the interfaces to the hardware. Some descriptions limit what can be built (for example, some controls are
embedded in fixed blocks of registers and the table specifies the address of the register block). Most descriptions
allow the hardware to be built in arbitrary ways and can describe arbitrary operation sequences needed to make the
hardware function. ACPI Tables containing “Definition Blocks” can make use of a pseudo-code type of language, the
interpretation of which is performed by the OS. That is, OSPM contains and uses an interpreter that executes procedures
encoded in the pseudo-code language and stored in the ACPI tables containing “Definition Blocks.” The pseudo-code
language, known as ACPI Machine Language (AML), is a compact, tokenized, abstract type of machine language.
ACPI Registers
The constrained part of the hardware interface, described (at least in location) by the ACPI System Description Tables.
1.4. OEM Implementation Strategy
4
