Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 6.1 – continued from previous page
_UID
Object that specifies a device’s unique persistent ID, or a control method that generates it.
For any device that is on a non-enumerable type of bus (for example, an ISA bus), OSPM enumerates the devices’
identifier(s) and the ACPI system firmware must supply an _HID object (plus one or more optional objects such as
_CID, _CLS, _HRV, _SUB) for each device to enable OSPM to do that. For devices on an enumerable type of bus,
such as a PCI bus, the ACPI system must identify which device on the enumerable bus is identified by a particular
address; the ACPI system firmware must supply an _ADR object for each device to enable this. A device object must
contain either an _HID object or an _ADR object, but must not contain both.
If any of these objects are implemented as control methods, these methods may depend on operation regions. Since
the control methods may be evaluated before an operation region provider becomes available, the control method must
be structured to execute in the absence of the operation region provider. (_REG methods notify the platform runtime
firmware of the presence of operation region providers.) When a control method cannot determine the current state of
the hardware due to a lack of operation region provider, it is recommended that the control method should return the
condition that was true at the time that control passed from the platform boot firmware to the OS. (The control method
should return a default, boot value).
6.1.1 _ADR (Address)
This object is used to supply OSPM with the address of a device on its parent bus. An _ADR object must be used when
specifying the address of any device on a bus that has a standard enumeration algorithm (see Configuration and “Plug
and Play”, for the situations when these devices do appear in the ACPI namespace). The _ADR object is valid only
within an Augmented Device Descriptor.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the address of the device
An _ADR object can be used to provide capabilities to the specified address even if a device is not present.
This allows the system to provide capabilities to a slot on the parent bus.
OSPM infers the parent bus and segment from the location of the _ADR object’s device package in the
ACPI namespace. For more information about the positioning of device packages in the ACPI namespace,
see Device (Declare Device Package)
_ADR object information must be static and can be defined for the following bus types listed in ADR Object
Address Encodings.
Table 6.2: ADR Object Address Encodings
BUS
Address Encoding
EISA
EISA slot number 0-F
Floppy Bus
Drive select values used for programming the floppy controller to access the
specified INT13 unit number. The _ADR Objects should be sorted based on
drive select encoding from 0-3.
I3C
Bits [63:52] - Reserved
Bits [51:48] - Master Instance
Bits [47:0] - I3C Device Provisional ID, following encoding defined in the MIPI
Specification for I3C.
If an I3C device supports a static address instead of a Provisional ID, then bits
[47:7] are Reserved (zero), and bits [6:0] are the 7-bit static address.
continues on next page
6.1. Device Identification Objects
361
