Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
– Power management policies too complicated to implement in platform firmware can be implemented and
supported in the OS, allowing inexpensive power managed hardware to support very elaborate power man-
agement policies.
– Gathering power management information from users, applications, and the hardware together into the OS
will enable better power management decisions and execution.
– Unification of power management algorithms in the OS will reduce conflicts between the firmware and OS
and will enhance reliability.
• Facilitate and accelerate industry-wide implementation of power management:
– OSPM and ACPI reduces the amount of redundant investment in power management throughout the indus-
try, as this investment and function will be gathered into the OS. This will allow industry participants to
focus their efforts and investments on innovation rather than simple parity.
– The OS can evolve independently of the hardware, allowing all ACPI-compatible machines to gain the
benefits of OS improvements and innovations.
• Create a robust interface for configuring motherboard devices:
– Enable new advanced designs not possible with existing interfaces.
1.1.1 Principle of Inclusive Terminology
The UEFI Forum follows a Principle of Inclusive Terminology in building and maintaining content for specifications.
This means efforts are made to ensure that all wording is perceived or likely to be perceived as welcoming by everyone
regardless of personal characteristics. In some cases, the Forum acknowledges that wording derived from earlier work,
for example references to legacy specifications not controlled by the Forum, may not follow this principle. In order to
preserve compatibility for code that reads on legacy specifications, particularly where that specification is no longer
under maintenance or development, language in this specification may appear out of sync with this principle. The
Forum is resolved to work with other standards development bodies to eliminate such examples over time. In the
meanwhile, by acknowledging and calling attention to this issue the hope is to promote discussion and action towards
more complete use of Inclusive Language reflective of the diverse and innovative population of the technical community
that works on standards.
1.2 Power Management Rationale
It is necessary to move power management into the OS and to use an abstract interface (ACPI) between the OS and the
hardware to achieve the principal goals set forth above. Because ACPI is abstract, the OS can evolve separately from
the hardware and, likewise, the hardware from the OS.
ACPI is by nature more portable across operating systems and processors. ACPI control methods allow for very flexible
implementations of particular features.
Issues with older power management approaches include the following:
• Minimal support for power management inhibits application vendors from supporting or exploiting it.
– Moving power management functionality into the OS makes it available on every machine on which the
OS is installed. The level of functionality (power savings, and so on) varies from machine to machine, but
users and applications will see the same power interfaces and semantics on all OSPM machines.
– This will enable application vendors to invest in adding power management functionality to their products.
• Legacy power management algorithms were restricted by the information available to the platform firmware that
implemented them. This limited the functionality that could be implemented.
1.2. Power Management Rationale
2
