Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
A.7.1 Input Device Power State Definitions
Table A-14: Input Device Power State Definitions
State
Status
Definition
D0
Required
Device is receiving full power from its power source, delivering full functionality
to the user, and preserving applicable context and state information.
D1
Optional
Input device power consumption is greatly reduced. In general, device is in a
power management state and is not delivering any functionality to the user except
wake functionality if applicable. Device status, state, or other information indi-
cators (for example, LEDs, LCD displays, and so on) are turned off to save power.
The following device context and state information should be preserved by the
policy owner or other software: Keyboard. Num, caps, scroll lock states (and
Compose and Kana states if applicable) and associated LED/indicator states, re-
peat delay, and repeat rate. Joystick. Forced feedback effects (if applicable).
Any input device. All context and state information that cannot be preserved by
the device when it’s conserving power.
D2
N/A
This state is not defined for input devices, use D1 as the power management state
instead.
D3
Required
Input device is off and not running. In general, the device is not delivering any
functionality to the user except wake functionality if applicable. Device context
and state information is lost.
A.7.2 Input Device Power Management Policy
Table A-15: Input Device Power Management Policy
Present
State
Next State
Cause
D3
D0
Requested by the system
D0
D1/D3*
Requested by the system (for example, system goes to sleep with wake enabled)
D0/D1
D3
Requested by the system (for example, system goes to sleep with wake disabled)
Power is removed
D1/D3
D0
Device with enabled wake capability requests transition by generating a wake
event Requested by the system
ò Note
This depends on whether the device features D1 or D3 wake capability or not; device will be put in the state with
the lowest possible power consumption.
A.7. Input Device Class
1103
