Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Bit [0] - Posting the motherboard VGA device is an option.
(Bit [0] should always be set)
Bit [1] - Posting a PCI VGA device is an option.
Bit [2] - Posting an AGP VGA device is an option.
Bit [3] - Posting a PCI-Express VGA device is an option.
Bits [31:4] - Reserved (must be zero)
B.5 Notifications for Display Devices
Display devices may need to know about external, asynchronous events. In order to accommodate that, the following
notifications are defined.
The event number is standardized because the event will be handled by the OS directly under certain circumstances
(see _DOS method in this specification).
These notifications are valid for Display Devices
Table B-4: Notifications for Display Devices
Value
Description
0x80
Cycle Output Device. Used to notify OSPM whenever the state of one of the output devices
attached to the VGA controller has been switched or toggled. This event will, for example, be
generated when the user presses a hotkey to switch the active display output from the LCD panel
to the CRT.
0x81
Output Device Status Change. Used to notify OSPM whenever the state of any output devices
attached to the VGA controller has been changed. This event will, for example, be generated when
the user plugs-in or remove a CRT from the VGA port. In this case, OSPM will re-enumerate all
devices attached to VGA
0x82
Cycle Display Output Hotkey Pressed. Used to notify OSPM whenever the user has pressed the
Cycle display hotkey.
0x83
Next Display Output Hotkey Pressed. Used to notify OSPM whenever the user has pressed the
Next display hotkey.
0x84
Previous Display Output Hotkey Pressed. Used to notify OSPM whenever the user has pressed
the Previous display hotkey.
B.6 Output Device-specific Methods
The methods in this section are methods associated with the display output device.
B.6.1 _ADR (Return the Unique ID for this Device)
This method returns a unique ID representing the display output device. All output devices must have a unique hardware
ID. This method is required for all The IDs returned by this method will appear in the list of hardware IDs returned by
the _DOD method.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
B.5. Notifications for Display Devices
1122
