Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
system description tables that provide various information about the system. As shown in Description Table Structures
, there is always a physical address in the Root System Description Table for the Fixed ACPI Description Table (FADT).
When OSPM follows a physical pointer to another table, it examines each table for a known signature. Based on the
signature, OSPM can then interpret the implementation-specific data within the description table.
The purpose of the FADT is to define various static system information related to configuration and power management.
The Fixed ACPI Description Table starts with the “FACP” signature. The FADT describes the implementation and
configuration details of the ACPI hardware registers on the platform.
For a specification of the ACPI Hardware Register Blocks (PM1a_EVT_BLK, PM1b_EVT_BLK, PM1a_CNT_BLK,
PM1b_CNT_BLK, PM2_CNT_BLK, PM_TMR_BLK, GP0_BLK, GP1_BLK, and one or more P_BLKs), see ACPI
Register Model The PM1a_EVT_BLK, PM1b_EVT_BLK, PM1a_CNT_BLK, PM1b_CNT_BLK, PM2_CNT_BLK,
and PM_TMR_BLK blocks are for controlling low-level ACPI system functions.
The GPE0_BLK and GPE1_BLK blocks provide the foundation for an interrupt-processing model for Control Methods.
The P_BLK blocks are for controlling processor features.
Besides ACPI Hardware Register implementation information, the FADT also contains a physical pointer to a data
structure known as the Differentiated System Description Table (DSDT), which is encoded in Definition Block format
(See Definition Blocks ).
A Definition Block contains information about the platform’s hardware implementation details in the form of data
objects arranged in a hierarchical (tree-structured) entity known as the “ACPI namespace”, which represents the plat-
form’s hardware configuration. All definition blocks loaded by OSPM combine to form one namespace that represents
the platform. Data objects are encoded in a format known as ACPI Machine Language or AML for short. Data objects
encoded in AML are “evaluated” by an OSPM entity known as the AML interpreter. Their values may be static or
dynamic. The AML interpreter’s dynamic data object evaluation capability includes support for programmatic evalua-
tion, including accessing address spaces (for example, I/O or memory accesses), calculation, and logical evaluation, to
determine the result. Dynamic namespace objects are known as “control methods”. OSPM “loads” an entire definition
block as a logical unit - adding to or removing the associated objects from the namespace. The DSDT contains a Def-
inition Block named the Differentiated Definition Block that contains implementation and configuration information
OSPM can use to perform power management, thermal management, or Plug and Play functionality that goes beyond
the information described by the ACPI hardware registers.
Definition Blocks can either define new system attributes or, in some cases, build on prior definitions. A Definition
Block can be loaded from system memory address space. One use of a Definition Block is to describe and distribute
platform version changes.
Definition blocks enable wide variations of hardware platform implementations to be described to the ACPI-compatible
OS while confining the variations to reasonable boundaries. Definition blocks enable simple platform implementations
to be expressed by using a few well-defined object names. In theory, it might be possible to define a PCI configuration
space-like access method within a Definition Block, by building it from I/O space, but that is not the goal of the
Definition Block specification. Such a space is usually defined as a “built in” operator.
Some operators perform simple functions and others encompass complex functions. The power of the Definition Block
comes from its ability to allow these operations to be glued together in numerous ways, to provide functionality to
OSPM. The operators present are intended to allow many useful hardware designs to be ACPI-expressed, not to allow
all hardware designs to be expressed.
5.1. Overview of the System Description Table Architecture
97
