Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 19.7 – continued from previous page
To convert from
an object of this
Data Type
To an object of
this Data Type
This action is performed by the AML Interpreter
Buffer
Integer
If no integer object exists, a new integer is created. The contents of
the buffer are copied to the Integer, starting with the least-significant
bit and continuing until the buffer has been completely copied — up
to the maximum number of bits in an Integer. The size of an Integer
is indicated by the Definition Block table header’s Revision field. A
Revision field value less than 2 indicates that the size of an Integer is
32 bits. A value greater than or equal to 2 signifies that the size of an
Integer is 64 bits. If the buffer is smaller than the size of an integer,
it is zero extended. If the buffer is larger than the size of an integer,
it is truncated. Conversion of a zero-length buffer to an integer is not
allowed.
Buffer
String
If no string object exists, a new string is created. If the string al-
ready exists, it is completely overwritten and truncated or extended
to accommodate the converted buffer exactly. The entire contents
of the buffer are converted to a string of two-character hexadecimal
numbers, each separated by a space. A zero-length buffer will be
converted to a null (zero-length) string.
Buffer Field
[See the Integer and
Buffer Rules]
If the Buffer Field is smaller than or equal to the size of an Integer (in
bits), it will be treated as an Integer. Otherwise, it will be treated as
a buffer. The size of an Integer is indicated by the Definition Block
table header’s Revision field. A Revision field value less than 2 in-
dicates that the size of an Integer is 32 bits. A value greater than
or equal to 2 signifies that the size of an Integer is 64 bits. (See the
conversion rules for the Integer and Buffer data types.)
Field Unit
[See the Integer and
Buffer Rules]
If the Field Unit is smaller than or equal to the size of an Integer (in
bits), it will be treated as an Integer. If the Field Unit is larger than
the size of an Integer, it will be treated as a Buffer. The size of an
Integer is indicated by the Definition Block table header’s Revision
field. A Revision field value less than 2 indicates that the size of an
Integer is 32 bits. A value greater than or equal to 2 signifies that the
size of an Integer is 64 bits. (See the conversion rules for the Integer
and Buffer data types.)
Integer
Buffer
If no buffer object exists, a new buffer object is created based on the
size of the integer (4 bytes for 32-bit integers and 8 bytes for 64-bit
integers). If a buffer object already exists, the Integer overwrites the
entire Buffer object. If the integer requires more bits than the size
of the Buffer, then the integer is truncated before being copied to the
Buffer. If the integer contains fewer bits than the size of the buffer,
the Integer is zero-extended to fill the entire buffer.
Integer
Buffer Field
The Integer overwrites the entire Buffer Field.
If the integer is
smaller than the size of the buffer field, it is zero-extended. If the
integer is larger than the size of the buffer field, the upper bits are
truncated. Compatibility Note: This conversion was first introduced
in ACPI 2.0. The behavior in ACPI 1.0 was undefined.
Integer
Debug Object
The integer is displayed as a hexadecimal value.
Integer
Field Unit
The Integer overwrites the entire Field Unit. If the integer is smaller
than the size of the buffer field, it is zero-extended. If the integer is
larger than the size of the buffer field, the upper bits are truncated.
continues on next page
19.3. ASL Concepts
938
