Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
9.3.5 _ALR (Ambient Light Response)
This object evaluates to a package of ambient light illuminance to display luminance mappings that can be used by an
OS to calibrate its ambient light policy for a given sensor configuration. The OS can use this information to extrapolate
an ALS response curve - noting that these values may be treated differently depending on the OS implementation but
should be used in some form to calibrate ALS policy.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A variable-length Package containing a list of luminance mapping Packages. Each mapping package consists of two
Integers.
The return data is specified as a package of packages, where each tuple (inner package) consists of the pair of Integer
values of the form:
{<display luminance adjustment>, <ambient light illuminance>}
Package elements should be listed in monotonically increasing order based upon the ambient light illuminance value
(the Y-coordinate on the graph) to simplify parsing by the OS.
Ambient light illuminance values are specified in lux (lumens per square meter). Display luminance (or brightness)
adjustment values are specified using relative percentages in order simplify the means by which these adjustments are
applied in lieu of changes to the user’s display brightness preference. A value of 100 is used to indicate no (0%) display
brightness adjustment given the lack of signed data types in ACPI. Values less than 100 indicate a negative adjustment
(dimming); values greater than 100 indicate a positive adjustment (brightening). For example, a display brightness
adjustment value of 75 would be interpreted as a -25% adjustment, and a value of 110 as a +10% adjustment.
Fig. 9.1: A five-point ALS Response Curve
The figure above illustrates the use of five points to approximate an example response curve, where the dotted line
represents an approximation of the desired response (solid curve). Extrapolation of the values between these points
is OS-specific - although for the purposes of this example we’ll assume a piecewise linear approximation. The ALS
response curve (_ALR) would be specified as follows:
9.3. Ambient Light Sensor Device
598
