Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
• If the status is Record Store Empty (0x04), continue to step 7.
• If an error occurred reading a valid error record, the status will be Failed (0x03), continue to step 7.
• If the status is Record Not Found (0x05), indicating that the specified error record does not exist, OSPM
retrieves a valid identifier by executing a GET_RECORD_IDENTIFIER action. The platform will return
a valid record identifier.
• If the status is Success, OSPM transfers the retrieved record from the Error Log Address Range to a private
buffer and then executes the GET_RECORD_IDENTIFIER action to determine the identifier of the next
record in the persistent store.
7. Execute an END_OPERATION to notify the platform that the record read operation is complete.
The steps performed by the platform to carry out a read request are as follows:
1. Sets some internal state to indicate that it is busy. OSPM polls by executing a CHECK_BUSY_STATUS action
until the operation is completed.
2. Using the record identifier supplied by OSPM through the SET_RECORD_IDENTIFIER operation, determine
which error record to read:
• If the identifier is 0x0 (unspecified), the platform reads the ‘first’ error record from its persistent store (first
being implementation specific).
• If the identifier is non-zero, the platform attempts to locate the specified error record on the persistent store.
• If the specified error record does not exist, set the status register’s Status to Record Not Found (0x05), and
update the status register’s Identifier field with the identifier of the ‘first’ error record.
3. Transfer the record from the persistent store to the offset specified by OSPM from the base of the Error Log
Address Range.
4. Record the Identifier of the ‘next’ valid error record that resides on the persistent store. This allows OSPM to
retrieve a valid record identifier by executing a GET_RECORD_IDENTIFIER operation.
5. Record the status of the operation so OSPM can retrieve the status by executing a GET_COMMAND_STATUS
action.
6. Clear internal busy state so when OSPM executes CHECK_BUSY_STATUS, the result indicates that the oper-
ation is complete.
Where the Error Log Address Range does reside in NVRAM, OSPM requires no platform support to read persisted
error records. OSPM can scan the Error Log Address Range on its own and retrieve the error records it previously
persisted.
18.5.2.3 Clearing
After OSPM has finished processing an error record, it will notify the platform by clearing the record. This allows the
platform to delete the record from the persistent store or mark it such that the space is free and can be reused. The
following steps are executed by OSPM to clear an error record:
1. Executes a BEGIN_ CLEAR_OPERATION action to notify the platform that a record clear operation is begin-
ning.
2. Executes a SET_RECORD_IDENTIFER action to inform the platform which error record is to be cleared. This
value must not be set to 0x0 (unspecified).
3. Executes an EXECUTE_OPERATION action to instruct the platform to begin the clear operation.
4. Busy waits by continually executing CHECK_BUSY_STATUS action until FALSE is returned.
5. Executes a GET_COMMAND_STATUS action to determine the status of the clear operation.
18.5. Error Serialization
874
