CHAPTER
TWENTYONE
ACPI DATA TABLES AND TABLE DEFINITION LANGUAGE
There are two fundamental types of ACPI tables:
• Tables that contain AML code produced from the ACPI Source Language (ASL). These include the DSDT, any
SSDTs, and sometimes OEM-specific tables (OEMx).
• Tables that contain simple data and no AML byte code. These types of tables are known as ACPI Data Tables.
They include tables such as the FADT, MADT, ECDT, SRAT, etc. - essentially any table other than a DSDT or
SSDT.
• The first type of table is generated using an ASL compiler and this language is specified in section 18.
The second type of table, the ACPI Data Table, is addressed by this section.
This section describes a simple language (the Table Definition Language or TDL) that can be used to generate any
ACPI data table. It simplifies the table generation for platform firmware vendors and can automatically generate fields
such as table lengths, subtable lengths, checksums, flag fields, etc.
21.1 Types of ACPI Data Tables
In the context of a compiler for the Table Definition Language (TDL), there are two types of ACPI Data Tables:
• ACPI tables that are “known” to the compiler. These would typically include all of the basic ACPI tables defined
in the ACPI specification such as the FADT, MADT, ECDT, etc. Since these tables are fully specified (usually
via the ACPI specification, but from other sources as well), the TDL compiler knows all details of these tables –
including all required data types, optional or required sub-tables, etc.
• ACPI tables that are unknown to the compiler. These may include tables that are not defined in the ACPI spec-
ification such as MCFG, DBGP, etc., or simply new ACPI tables that have not yet been implemented in the
compiler.
One of the goals of the ACPI Table Definition Language is to support both cases above. Most ACPI tables will be
known to the compiler (and will be the easiest to specify in TDL), but the language is general enough to allow the
definition of new ACPI tables that are unknown or unimplemented in the compiler.
An additional goal of TDL is to support the output of a disassembler that formats an existing table into TDL. This
enables disassembler/change/compile operations.
1078
