Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 3.2: Example Modem and COM Port Hardware
3.4.5.1 Obtaining the Modem Capabilities
The OS determines the capabilities of this modem when it enumerates the modem by reading the modem’s entry in the
Differentiated Definition Block. In this case, the entry for the modem would report:
The device supports D0, D1, and D3:
• D0 requires PWR1 and PWR2 as power resources D1 requires PWR1 as a power resource (D3 implicitly requires
no power resources)
• To wake the system, the modem needs no power resources (implying it can wake the system from D0, D1, and
D3)
Control methods for setting power state and resources
3.4.5.2 Setting the Modem Power State
While the OS is running (G0 state), it switches the modem to different power states according to the power policy
defined for modems.
When an application opens the COM port, the OS turns on the modem by putting it in the D0 state. Then if the
application puts the modem in answer mode, the OS puts the modem in the D1 state to wait for the call. To make this
power-down transition, OSPM first runs a control method (_PS1) provided in the modem’s entry to put the device in
the D1 state. In this example, this control method asserts the MDM_D1 signal that tells the modem controller to go
into a low-power mode. OSPM then checks to see what power resources are no longer needed by the modem device.
In this case, PWR2 is no longer needed. Then it checks to make sure no other device in the system requires the use of
the PWR2 power resource. If the resource is no longer needed, the OSPM uses the _OFF control method associated
with that power resource in the Differentiated Definition Block to turn off the PWR2 power plane. This control method
sends the appropriate commands to the core chip set to stop asserting the PWR2_EN line.
OSPM does not always turn off power resources when a given device is put in a lower power state. For example,
3.4. Controlling Device Power
38
