Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
The PM Timer’s programming model is implemented as a fixed hardware feature to increase the accuracy of reading
the timer.
4.8.2.2 Console Buttons
ACPI defines user-initiated events to request OSPM to transition the platform between the G0 working state and the G1
sleeping, G2 soft off and G3 mechanical off states. ACPI also defines a recommended mechanism to unconditionally
transition the platform from a hung G0 working state to the G2 soft-off state.
ACPI operating systems use power button events to determine when the user is present. As such, these ACPI events
are associated with buttons in the ACPI specification.
The ACPI specification supports two button models:
• A single-button model that generates an event for both sleeping and entering the soft-off state. The function of
the button can be configured using OSPM UI.
• A dual-button model where the power button generates a soft-off transition request and a sleep button generates
a sleep transition request. The type of button implies the function of the button.
Control of these button events is either through the fixed hardware programming model or the generic hardware pro-
gramming model (control method based). The fixed hardware programming model has the advantage that OSPM can
access the button at any time, including when the system is crashed. In a crashed system with a fixed hardware power
button, OSPM can make a “best” effort to determine whether the power button has been pressed to transition to the
system to the soft-off state, because it doesn’t require the AML interpreter to access the event bits.
4.8.2.2.1 Power Button
The power button logic can be used in one of two models: single button or dual button. In the single-button model, the
user button acts as both a power button for transitioning the system between the G0 and G2 states and a sleep button
for transitioning the system between the G0 and G1 states. The action of the user pressing the button is determined by
software policy or user settings. In the dual-button model, there are separate buttons for sleeping and power control.
Although the buttons still generate events that cause software to take an action, the function of the button is now
dedicated: the sleep button generates a sleep request to OSPM and the power button generates a wake request.
Support for a power button is indicated by a combination of the PWR_BUTTON flag and the power button device
object, as shown in the following:
Table 4.8: Power Button Support
Indicated Support
PWR_BUTTON Flag
Power Button Device Object
Fixed hardware power button
Clear
Absent
Control method power button
Set
Present
The power button can also have an additional capability to unconditionally transition the system from a hung working
state to the G2 soft-off state. In the case where OSPM event handler is no longer able to respond to power button events,
the power button override feature provides a back-up mechanism to unconditionally transition the system to the soft-off
state. This feature can be used when the platform doesn’t have a mechanical off button, which can also provide this
function. ACPI defines that holding the power button active for four seconds or longer will generate a power button
override event.
4.8. ACPI Register Model
69
