Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 8.12 – continued from previous page
Element
Object Type
Description
Residency Counter Regis-
ter
Buffer
Optional residency counter register which provides the
amount of time the owning hierarchy node has been
in this local power state.
The time is provided in a
frequency denoted by the Residency counter frequency
field (see above). The register is optional. If the platform
does not support it, then the following NULL register de-
scriptor should be used: ResourceTemplate() {Register
{(SystemMemory, 0, 0, 0, 0)}} .
Usage Counter Register
Buffer
Optional register that provides the number of times the
owning hierarchy node has been in this local power
state. If the platform does not support this register, then
the following NULL register descriptor should be used:
ResourceTemplate() {Register {(SystemMemory,
0, 0, 0, 0)}}
State Name
String (ASCIIZ)
String containing a human-readable identifier of this LPI
state. This element is optional and an empty string (a null
character) should be used if this is not supported.
Table 8.13: Flags for LPI states
Element
Bits
Description
Enabled
0
1 if the power state is enabled for use | 0 if the power state is disabled
It is not required that all processors or processor containers include _LPI objects. However, if a processor container
includes an _LPI object, then all children processors or processor containers must have _LPI objects.
The following sections describe the more complex properties of LPI in more detail, as well as rules governing wakeup
for LPI states.
8.4.3.3.1 Disabling a State
When a local state is disabled by clearing the Enabled bit in the Flags field, any deeper states for that node are not
renumbered. This allows other properties which rely on indexing into the state list for that node (Enabled Parent State
for example) to not change.
Disabled states should not be requested by the OS and values returned by Residency/Usage Counter Registers are
undefined.
8.4. Declaring Processors
540
