Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 19.7 – continued from previous page
To convert from
an object of this
Data Type
To an object of
this Data Type
This action is performed by the AML Interpreter
Integer
String
If no string object exists, a new string object is created based on the
size of the integer (8 characters for 32-bit integers and 16 characters
for 64-bit integers). If the string already exists, it is completely over-
written and truncated or extended to accommodate the converted in-
teger exactly. In either case, the entire integer is converted to a string
of hexadecimal ASCII characters.
Package
Package
If no package object exists, a new package object is created. If the
package already exists, it is completely overwritten and truncated or
extended to accommodate the source package exactly. Any and all
existing valid (non-null) package elements of the target package are
deleted, and the entire contents of the source package are copied into
the target package.
Package
Debug Object
Each element of the package is displayed based on its type.
String
Buffer
If no buffer object exists, a new buffer object is created. If a buffer
object already exists, it is completely overwritten. If the string is
longer than the buffer, the string is truncated before copying. If the
string is shorter than the buffer, the remaining buffer bytes are set
to zero. In either case, the string is treated as a buffer, with each
ASCII string character copied to one buffer byte, including the null
terminator. A null (zero-length) string will be converted to a zero-
length buffer.
String
Buffer Field
The string is treated as a buffer. If this buffer is smaller than the size
of the buffer field, it is zero extended. If the buffer is larger than
the size of the buffer field, the upper bits are truncated. Compati-
bility Note: This conversion was first introduced in ACPI 2.0. The
behavior in ACPI 1.0 was undefined.
String
Debug Object
Each string character is displayed as an ASCII character.
String
Field Unit
Each character of the string is written, starting with the first, to the
Field Unit. If the Field Unit is less than eight bits, then the upper bits
of each character are lost. If the Field Unit is greater than eight bits,
then the additional bits are zeroed.
String
Integer
If no integer object exists, a new integer is created. The integer is ini-
tialized to the value zero and the ASCII string is interpreted as a hex-
adecimal constant. Each string character is interpreted as a hexadec-
imal value (‘0’-‘9’, ‘A’-‘F’, ‘a’-‘f’), starting with the first character as
the most significant digit, and ending with the first non-hexadecimal
character, end-of-string, or when the size of an integer is reached (8
characters for 32-bit integers and 16 characters for 64-bit integers).
Note: the first non-hex character terminates the conversion without
error, and a “0x” prefix is not allowed. Conversion of a null (zero-
length) string to an integer is not allowed.
19.3. ASL Concepts
939
