Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 11.2: FIF Package Details
Field
Format
Description
Revision
Integer
Current revision is: 0
Fine
Grain
Control
Integer
(Boolean)
A non zero value in this field indicates OSPM may evaluate the fan device’s
_FSL object with a Level argument value in the range of 0-100, which represents
a percentage of maximum speed. A zero value in this field indicates that OSPM
may evaluate the fan device’s _FSL object with a Level argument value that is a
Control field value from a package in the _FPS object’s package list only.
Step Size
Integer
(DWORD)
The recommended minimum step size in percentage points to be used when
OSPM performs fine-grained fan speed control. OSPM may utilize the value
of this field if the FineGrainControl field is non-zero the value in this field is
between 1 and 9.
Low
Speed
Notification
Support
Integer
(Boolean)
A non zero value in this field indicates that the platform will issue a Notify (0x80)
to the fan device if a low (errant) fan speed is detected.
If a fan device supports fine-grained control, OSPM may evaluate a fan device’s _FSL object with any Level argument
value that is less than or equal to the Control field value specified in the package of the _FPS object’s package list
that corresponds to the active cooling trip point that has been exceeded. This capability provides OSPM access to one
hundred fan speed settings thus enabling fine-grained fan speed control. The platform uses the StepSize field to help
OSPM optimize its fan level selection policy by fine-grained fan speed control. The platform uses the StepSize field
to help OSPM optimize its fan level selection policy by indicating recommended increments in the fan speed level
value that are appropriate for the fan when one percent increments are not optimal. In the event OSPM’s incremental
selections of Level using the StepSize field value do not sum to 100%, OSPM may select an appropriate ending Level
increment to reach 100%. OSPM should use the same residual step value first when reducing Level.
11.3.1.2 _FPS (Fan Performance States)
The optional _FPS object evaluates to a variable-length package containing a list of packages that describe the fan
device’s performance states. A temperature reading above an active cooling trip point defined by an _ACx object in
a thermal zone or above a native active cooling trip point of a device within the thermal zone causes OSPM thermal
control to engage the appropriate corresponding fan performance state from the list of fan performance states described
by the _FPS object if the fan device is present in the corresponding _ALx device list or if an entry exists for the fan and
trip point in the active cooling relationship table (_ART).
OSPM assumes a linear relationship for the acoustic impact and power consumption values between successive entries
in the fan performance state list. Notice that the acoustic impact measurement unit (Decibels) is inherently non-linear.
As such, the platform should populate _FPS entries as necessary to enable OSPM to achieve optimal results.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A variable-length Package containing a Revision ID and a list of Packages that describe the fan device’s
performance states as described in the table below.
Return Value Information
Package {
Revision,
// Integer - Current revision is: 0
FanPState[0],
// Package
....
(continues on next page)
11.3. Fan Device
731
