Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
16.1.1.1 Example 1: S1 Sleeping State Implementation
This example references an IA processor that supports the stop grant state through the assertion of the STPCLK# signal.
When SLP_TYPx is programmed to the S1 value (the OEM chooses a value, which is then placed in the \_S1 object)
and the SLP_ENx bit is subsequently set, or when the HW-reduced ACPI Sleep Type value for S1 and the SLP_EN bit
are written to the Sleep Control Register, the hardware can implement an S1 state by asserting the STPCLK# signal to
the processor, causing it to enter the stop grant state.
In this case, the system clocks (PCI and CPU) are still running. Any enabled wake event causes the hardware to de-
assert the STPCLK# signal to the processor whereby OSPM must first invalidate the CPU caches and then transition
back into the working state.
16.1.1.2 Example 2: S1 Sleeping State Implementation
When SLP_TYPx is programmed to the S1 value and the SLP_ENx bit is subsequently set, or the HW-reduced ACPI
Sleep Type value for S1 and the SLP_EN bit are written to the Sleep Control Register, the hardware will implement an
S1 sleeping state transition by doing the following:
1. Placing the processor into the stop grant state.
2. Stopping the processor’s input clock, placing the processor into the stop clock state.
3. Placing system memory into a self-refresh or suspend-refresh state. Refresh is maintained by the memory itself
or through some other reference clock that is not stopped during the sleeping state.
4. Stopping all system clocks (asserts the standby signal to the system PLL chip). Normally the RTC will continue
running.
In this case, all clocks in the system have been stopped (except for the RTC). Hardware must reverse the process
(restarting system clocks) upon any enabled wake event whereby OSPM must first invalidate the CPU caches and then
transition back into the working state.
16.1.2 S2 Sleeping State
The S2 state is defined as a low wake latency sleep state. This state is similar to the S1 sleeping state where any
context except for system memory may be lost. Additionally, control starts from the processor’s reset vector after the
wake event. Before entering S2 the SLP_EN bit, OSPM will flush the system caches. If the platform supports the
WBINVD instruction (as indicated by the WBINVD and WBINVD_FLUSH flags in the FADT), OSPM will execute
the WBINVD instruction. The hardware is responsible for maintaining chip set and memory context. An example of
an S2 sleeping state implementation follows.
16.1.2.1 Example: S2 Sleeping State Implementation
When the SLP_TYPx register(s) are programmed to the S2 value (found in the \_S2 object) and the SLP_EN bit is set,
or the HW-reduced ACPI Sleep Type value for S2 and the SLP_EN bit are written to the Sleep Control Register, the
hardware will implement an S2 sleeping state transition by doing the following:
1. Stopping system clocks (the only running clock is the RTC).
2. Placing system memory into a self-refresh or suspend-refresh state.
3. Powering off the CPU and cache subsystem.
From S2 Sleeping State the CPU is reset upon detection of the wake event; however, core logic and memory maintain
their context. Execution control starts from the CPU’s boot vector. The platform boot firmware is required to:
1. Program the initial boot configuration of the CPU (such as the CPU’s MSR and MTRR registers).
16.1. Sleeping States
827
