Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5.2.9.2 System Type Attributes
This set of flags is used by the OS to assist in determining assumptions about power and device management. These
flags are read at boot time and are used to make decisions about power management and device settings. For example,
a system that has the SEALED_CASE bit set may take a very aggressive low noise policy toward thermal management.
In another example an OS might not load video, keyboard or mouse drivers on a HEADLESS system.
5.2.9.3 IA-PC Boot Architecture Flags
This set of flags is used by an OS to guide the assumptions it can make in initializing hardware on IA-PC platforms.
These flags are used by an OS at boot time (before the OS is capable of providing an operating environment suitable for
parsing the ACPI namespace) to determine the code paths to take during boot. In IA-PC platforms with reduced legacy
hardware, the OS can skip code paths for legacy devices if none are present. For example, if there are no ISA devices,
an OS could skip code that assumes the presence of these devices and their associated resources. These flags are used
independently of the ACPI namespace. The presence of other devices must be described in the ACPI namespace as
specified in Section 6 These flags pertain only to IA-PC platforms. On other system architectures, the entire field should
be set to 0.
Table 5.11: Fixed ACPI Description Table Boot IA-PC Boot
IAPC_BOOT_ARCH
Bit
length
Bit
offset
Description
LEGACY_DEVICES
1
0
If set, indicates that the motherboard supports user-visible de-
vices on the LPC or ISA bus. User-visible devices are devices
that have end-user accessible connectors (for example, LPT
port), or devices for which the OS must load a device driver
so that an end-user application can use a device. If clear, the
OS may assume there are no such devices and that all devices
in the system can be detected exclusively via industry standard
device enumeration mechanisms (including the ACPI names-
pace).
8042
1
1
If set, indicates that the motherboard contains support for
a port 60 and 64 based keyboard controller, usually imple-
mented as an 8042 or equivalent micro-controller.
VGA Not Present
1
2
If set, indicates to OSPM that it must not blindly probe the
VGA hardware (that responds to MMIO addresses A0000h-
BFFFFh and IO ports 3B0h-3BBh and 3C0h-3DFh) that may
cause machine check on this system. If clear, indicates to
OSPM that it is safe to probe the VGA hardware.
MSI Not Supported
1
3
If set, indicates to OSPM that it must not enable Message Sig-
naled Interrupts (MSI) on this platform.
PCIe ASPM Controls
1
4
If set, indicates to OSPM that it must not enable OSPM ASPM
control on this platform.
CMOS RTC Not Present
1
5
If set, indicates that the CMOS RTC is either not imple-
mented, or does not exist at the legacy addresses. OSPM uses
the Control Method Time and Alarm Namespace device in-
stead.
Reserved
10
6
Must be 0.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
125
