Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
4. OSPM rings the door bell by writing to Doorbell register.
5. Platform completes the request and will generate SCI to indicate that command is complete.
6. OSPM reads Status register for the PCC sub channel and confirms that the command was successfully completed.
7. OSPM reads POWER STATE from POWER_STATE_ID register of PCC sub channel.
5.2.22.4 Memory Power Node
Memory Power Node is a representation of a logical memory region that needs to be transitioned in and out of a memory
power state as a unit. This logical memory region is made up of one more system memory address range(s). A Memory
Power Node is uniquely identified by Memory Power Node ID.
Note that memory power node structure defined in Table 5.109 can only represent a single address range. This address
range should be 4K aligned. If a Memory Power Node contains more than one memory address range (i.e. non-
contiguous range), firmware must construct a Memory power Node structure for each of the memory address ranges
but specify the same Memory Power Node ID in all the structures.
Memory Power Nodes are not hierarchical. However, a given memory address range covered by a Memory power node
could be fully covered by another memory power node if that nodes memory address range is inclusive of the other
node’s range. For example, memory power node MPN0 may cover memory address range 1G-2G and memory power
node MPN1 covers 1-4G. Here MPN1 memory address range also comprehends the range covered by MPN0.
OSPM is expected to identify the memory power node(s) that corresponds to the maximum memory address range that
OSPM is able to power manage at a given time. For example, if MPN0 covers 1G-2G and MPN1 covers 1-4G and
OSPM is able to power manage 1-4G, it should select MPN1. If MPN0 is in a non-active memory power state, OSPM
must move MPN0 to MPS0 (Active state) before placing MPN1 in desired Memory Power State. Further, MPN1 can
support more power states than MPN0. If MPN1 is in such a state , say MPS3 , that MPN0 does not support, software
must not query MPN0. If queried, MPN0 will return “not Valid” until MPN1 returns to MPS0.
• [Implementation Note] In general, memory nodes corresponding to larger address space ranges correspond to
higher memory aggregation (e.g. memory covered by a DIMM vs. memory covered by a memory channel) and
hence typically present higher power saving opportunities.
5.2.22.4.1 Memory Power Node Structure
The following structure specifies the fields used for communicating memory power node information. Each entry in
the MPST table will be having corresponding memory power node structure defined.
This structure communicates address range, number of power states implemented, information about individual power
states, number of distinct physical components that comprise this memory power node.
The physical component identifiers can be cross-referenced against the memory topology table entries.
Table 5.109: Memory Power Node Structure definition
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Flag
1
0
The flag describes type of memory node. See the Table 5.110
table below for details.
Reserved
1
1
For future use
continues on next page
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
201
