Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
• How to design fixed hardware features
• How to design generic hardware features
• The ACPI Event Model
4.4 Diagram Legend
The hardware section uses simplified logic diagrams to represent how certain aspects of the hardware are implemented.
The following symbols are used in the logic diagrams to represent programming bits:
Write-only control bit
Enable, control, or status bit
Sticky status bit
Query value
The half round symbol with an inverted “V” represents a write-only control bit. This bit has the behavior that it
generates its control function when it is set. Reads to write-only bits are treated as ignore by software (the bit position
is masked off and ignored).
The round symbol with an “X” represents a programming bit. As an enable or control bit, software setting or clearing
this bit will result in the bit being read as set or clear (unless otherwise noted). As a status bit it directly represents the
value of the signal.
The square symbol represents a sticky status bit. A sticky status bit is set by the level (not edge) of a hardware signal
(active high or active low). The bit is only cleared by software writing a “1” to its bit position.
The rectangular symbol represents a query value from the embedded controller. This is the value the embedded con-
troller returns to the system software upon a query command in response to an SCI event. The query value is associated
with the event control method that is scheduled to execute upon an embedded controller event.
4.5 Register Bit Notation
Throughout this section there are logic diagrams that reference bits within registers. These diagrams use a notation
that easily references the register name and bit position. The notation is as follows:
Registername.Bit
Registername contains the name of the register as it appears in this specification
Bit contains a zero-based decimal value of the bit position
For example, the SLP_EN bit resides in the PM1x_CNT register bit 13 and would be represented in diagram notation
as:
SLP_EN
PM1x_CNT.13
4.4. Diagram Legend
56
