Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5.6.4.2 GPE Wake Events
An important use of the general-purpose events is to implement device wake events. The components of the ACPI
event programming model interact in the following way:
• When a device asserts its wake signal, the general-purpose status event bit used to track that device is set.
• While the corresponding general-purpose enable bit is enabled, the SCI interrupt is asserted.
• If the system is sleeping, this will cause the hardware, if possible, to transition the system into the S0 state.
• Once the system is running, OSPM will dispatch the corresponding GPE handler.
• The handler needs to determine which device object has signaled wake and performs a wake Notify command
on the corresponding device object(s) that have asserted wake.
• In turn OSPM will notify OSPM native driver(s) for each device that will wake its device to service it.
Events that issue a notify for device wake may not be intermixed with non-wake (runtime) events on the same GPE
input (packet completions, for example). The only exception to this rule is made for the special devices below. Only
the following devices are allowed to utilize a single GPE for both wake and runtime events:
1. Button Devices: PNP0C0C - Power Button Device | PNP0C0D - Lid Device | PNP0C0E - Sleep Button Device
2. PCI Bus Wakeup Event Reporting (PME): PNP0A03 - PCI Host Bridge
All wake events that are not exclusively tied to a GPE input (for example, one input is shared for multiple wake events)
must have individual enable and status bits in order to properly handle the semantics used by the system.
5.6.4.2.1 Managing a Wake Event Using Device _PRW Objects
A device’s _PRW object provides the zero-based bit index into the general-purpose status register block to indicate
which general-purpose status bit from either GPE0_BLK or GPE1_BLK is used as the specific device’s wake mask.
Although the hardware must maintain individual device wake enable bits, the system can have multiple devices using
the same general-purpose event bit by using OEM-specific hardware to provide second-level status and enable bits. In
this case, the OEM AML code is responsible for the second-level enable and status bits.
OSPM enables or disables the device wake function by enabling or disabling its corresponding GPE and by executing
its _PSW control method (which is used to take care of the second-level enables). When the GPE is asserted, OSPM
still executes the corresponding GPE control method that determines which device wakes are asserted and notifies the
corresponding device objects. The native OS driver is then notified that its device has asserted wake, for which the
driver powers on its device to service it.
If the system is in a sleeping state when the enabled GPE bit is asserted the hardware will transition the system into the
S0 state, if possible.
5.6.4.2.2 Determining the System Wake Source Using _Wxx Control Methods
After a transition to the S0 state, OSPM may evaluate the _SWS object in the \_GPE scope to determine the index of
the GPE that was the source of the transition event. When a single GPE is shared among multiple devices, the platform
provides a _Wxx control method, where xx is GPE index as described in Determining the System Wake Source Using
_Wxx Control Methods , that allows the source device of the transition to be determined. If implemented, the _Wxx
control method must exist in the \_GPE scope or in the scope of a GPE block device.
If _Wxx is implemented, either hardware or firmware must detect and save the source device as described in sws-
system-wake-source. During invocation, the _Wxx control method determines the source device and issues a No-
tify(<device>,0x2) on the device that caused the system to transition to the S0 state. If the device uses a bus-specific
method of arming for wakeup, then the Notify must be issued on the parent of the device that has a _PRW method.
5.6. ACPI Event Programming Model
332
