Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 8.4: Example Control for the STPCLK
To start the throttling logic OSPM sets the desired duty setting and then sets the THT_EN bit HIGH. To change the duty
setting, OSPM will first reset the THT_EN bit LOW, then write another value to the duty setting field while preserving
the other unused fields of this register, and then set the THT_EN bit HIGH again.
The example logic model is shown below:
Implementation of the ACPI processor power state controls minimally requires the support a single CPU sleeping state
(C1). All of the CPU power states occur in the G0/S0 system state; they have no meaning when the system transitions
into the sleeping state(S1-S4). ACPI defines the attributes (semantics) of the different CPU states (defines four of them).
It is up to the platform implementation to map an appropriate low-power CPU state to the defined ACPI CPU state.
ACPI clock control is supported through the optional processor register block (P_BLK). ACPI requires that there be
a unique processor register block for each CPU in the system. Additionally, ACPI requires that the clock logic for
multiprocessor systems be symmetrical when using the P_BLK and FADT interfaces; if the P0 processor supports the
C1, C2, and C3 states, but P1 only supports the C1 state, then OSPM will limit all processors to enter the C1 state when
idle.
The following sections define the different ACPI CPU sleeping states.
8.1.2 Processor Power State C1
All processors must support this power state. This state is supported through a native instruction of the processor (HLT
for IA 32-bit processors), and assumes no hardware support is needed from the chipset. The hardware latency of this
state must be low enough that OSPM does not consider the latency aspect of the state when deciding whether to use
it. Aside from putting the processor in a power state, this state has no other software-visible effects. In the C1 power
state, the processor is able to maintain the context of the system caches.
The hardware can exit this state for any reason, but must always exit this state when an interrupt is to be presented to
the processor.
8.1. Processor Power States
519
