Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
8.4.6.1.7 Energy Performance Preference Register
Optional Attribute:
Read/Write
Size:
4-8 bit(s
If supported by the platform, OSPM may write a range of values from 0 (performance preference) to 0xFF (energy
efficiency preference) that influences the rate of performance increase /decrease and the result of the hardware’s energy
efficiency and performance optimization policies.This provides a means for OSPM to limit the energy efficiency impact
of the platform’s performance-related optimizations / control policy and the performance impact of the platform’s
energy efficiency-related optimizations / control policy.
Writes to this register only have meaning when Autonomous Selection is enabled.
8.4.6.1.8 OSPM Control Policy
8.4.6.1.8.1 In-Band Thermal Control
A processor using performance controls may be listed in a thermal zone’s _PSL list. If it is and the thermal zone
engages passive cooling as a result of passing the _PSV threshold, OSPM will apply the ∆P[%] to modify the value
in the desired performance register. Any time that passive cooling is engaged, OSPM must also set the maximum
performance register equal to the desired performance register, to enforce the platform does not exceed the desired
performance opportunistically.
Note: In System-on-Chip-based platforms where the SoC is comprised of multiple device components in addition to the
processor, OSPM’s use of the Desired and Maximum registers for thermal control may not produce an optimal result
because of SoC device interaction. The use of proprietary package level thermal controls (if they exist) may produce
more optimal results.
8.4.6.1.9 Using PCC Registers
If the PCC register space is used, then all PCC registers for all processors in the same performance domain (as defined
by _PSD), must be defined to be in the same subspace. If _PSD is not used, the restriction applies to all registers within
a given _CPC object.
OSPM will write registers by filling in the register value and issuing a PCC write command. It may also read static
registers, counters, and the performance limited register by issuing a read command (see Table 8.27).
To amortize the cost of PCC transactions, OSPM should read or write all PCC registers via a single read or write
command when possible.
Table 8.27: PCC Command Codes Used by Collaborative Processor
Performance Control
Command
Description
0x00
Read registers. Executed to request the platform update all registers for all enabled processors
with their current value.
0x01
Write registers. Executed to notify the platform one or more read/write registers for an enabled
processor has been updated.
0x02-0xFF
All other values are reserved.
8.4. Declaring Processors
585
