Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.9 – continued from previous page
FADT Minor Version
1
131
5.0 (errata bits 4-7 = 0)
Minor Version of this FADT structure, in
“Major.Minor” form, where ‘Major’ is the value in the
Major Version Field (Byte offset 8 in this table).
Bits 0-3 - The low order bits correspond to the minor
version of the specification version. For instance, ACPI
6.3 has a major version of 6, and a minor version of 3.
Bits 4-7 - The high order bits correspond to the version
of the ACPI Specification errata this table complies
with. A value of 0 means that it complies with the base
version of the current specification. A value of 1 means
this is compatible with Errata A, 2 would be compatible
with Errata B, and so on.
X_FIRMWARE_CTRL
8
132
Extended physical address of the FACS. If this field con-
tains a nonzero value which can be used by the OSPM,
then the FIRMWARE_CTRL field must be ignored by
the OSPM. If the HARDWARE_REDUCED_ACPI flag
is set, and both this field and the FIRMWARE_CTRL
field are zero, there is no FACS available.
X_DSDT
8
140
Extended physical address of the DSDT. If this field con-
tains a nonzero value which can be used by the OSPM,
then the DSDT field must be ignored by the OSPM.
X_PM1a_EVT_BLK
12
148
Extended address of the PM1a Event Register Block,
represented in Generic Address Structure format. See
Section 4.8.3.1 for a hardware description layout of this
register block. This is a required field. If this field con-
tains a nonzero value which can be used by the OSPM,
then the PM1a_EVT_BLK field must be ignored by the
OSPM.
X_PM1b_EVT_BLK
12
160
Extended address of the PM1b Event Register Block,
represented in Generic Address Structure format. See
Section 4.8.3.1 for a hardware description layout of this
register block. This field is optional; if this register block
is not supported, this field contains zero. If this field con-
tains a nonzero value which can be used by the OSPM,
then the PM1b_EVT_BLK field must be ignored by the
OSPM.
X_PM1a_CNT_BLK
12
172
Extended address of the PM1a Control Register Block,
represented in Generic Address Structure format. See
Section 4.8.3.2 for a hardware description layout of this
register block. This is a required field. If this field con-
tains a nonzero value which can be used by the OSPM,
then the PM1a_CNT_BLK field must be ignored by the
OSPM.
continues on next page
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
117
