Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 10.6 – continued from previous page
Field
Format
Description
Recalibrate Count
Integer (DWORD)
This is used by battery systems that can’t detect when calibration is
required, but wish to recommend that the battery should be
calibrated after a certain number of cycles. Counting the number of
cycles and partial cycles is done by the OS.
0x00000000 - Only calibrate when Status Flag bit [3] is set.
0x00000000-0xFFFFFFFF - calibrate battery after detecting this
many battery cycles.
Quick
Recalibrate
Time
Integer (DWORD)
Returns the estimated time it will take to calibrate the battery if the
system is put into standby whenever Status Flags bit [4] is set.
While the AML controlled calibration cycle is in progress, this
returns the remaining time in the calibration cycle.
0x000000000 - indicates that standby while calibrating the battery
is not supported. The system should remain in S0 until calibration
is completed.
0x00000001 - 0xFFFFFFFE - estimated recalibration time in
seconds.
0xFFFFFFFF - indicates that the estimated time to recalibrate the
battery is unknown.
Slow
Recalibrate
Time
Integer (DWORD)
Returns the estimated time it will take to calibrate the battery if
Status Flag Bit [4] is ignored. While the AML controlled
calibration cycle is in progress, this returns the remaining time in
the calibration cycle.
0x000000000 - indicates that battery calibration may not be
successful if Status Flags Bit [4] is ignored.
0x00000001 - 0xFFFFFFFE - estimated recalibration time in
seconds.
0xFFFFFFFF - indicates that the estimated time to recalibrate the
battery is unknown.
See Battery Calibration for more information.
The Capability Flags and Recalibration Count are used to indicate what functions are controlled by AML and what
functions are controlled by OSPM as described in section 3.9.5, “Battery Calibration”. If the system does not implement
an AML controlled calibration cycle (bit [0]), it may indicate using bit [1] and bit [2] that the OS can control a generic
calibration cycle without prompting the user to remove the power cord. Recalibration Count may be used to indicate
that the platform runtime firmware cannot determine when calibration should be performed so bit 3 of the Status Flags
will never be set. In that case, OSPM will attempt to count the number of cycles.
Bit [3] is used by systems that do not have individual control over the batteries and can only perform calibration on all
batteries in the system at once. On such a system, if one battery requests calibration and another battery does not, the
OS may suggest that the user remove the battery that doesn’t need calibration, before initiating the calibration cycle.
When this bit is set, reading the Recalibrate Time from either battery should give the time to recalibrate all batteries
present in the system.
10.2. Control Method Batteries
700
