Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
battery subsystem is not required to perform any synthesis of a “composite battery” from the data of the separate
batteries. In cases where the battery subsystem does not synthesize a “composite battery” from the separate
battery’s data, the OS must provide that synthesis.
Thermal management
Since the OS controls the power and performance states of devices and processors, ACPI also addresses system
thermal management. It provides a simple, scalable model that allows OEMs to define thermal zones, thermal
indicators, and methods for cooling thermal zones.
SMBus Controller
ACPI defines a standard hardware and software communications interface between an OS bus driver and an
SMBus Controller. This allows any OS to provide a standard bus driver that can directly communicate with
SMBus devices in the system. This in turn enables the OEM to provide platform features that the OS and
applications can use.
OSPM’s mission is to optimally configure the platform and to optimally manage the system’s power, performance,
and thermal status given the user’s preferences and while supporting OS imposed Quality of Service (QOS) / usability
goals. To achieve these goals, ACPI requires that once an ACPI compliant platform is in ACPI mode, the platform’s
hardware, firmware, or other non-OS software must not manipulate the platform’s configuration, power, performance,
and thermal control interfaces independently of OSPM. OSPM alone is responsible for coordinating the configura-
tion, power management, performance management, and thermal control policy of the system. Manipulation of these
interfaces independently of OSPM undermines the purpose of OSPM/ACPI and may adversely impact the system’s
configuration, power, performance, and thermal policy goals. There are two exceptions to this requirement. The first
is in the case of the possibility of damage to a system from an excessive thermal conditions where an ACPI compatible
OS is present and OSPM latency is insufficient to remedy an adverse thermal condition. In this case, the platform may
exercise a failsafe thermal control mechanism that reduces the performance of a system component to avoid damage.
If this occurs, the platform must notify OSPM of the performance reduction if the reduction is of significant duration
(in other words, if the duration of reduced performance could adversely impact OSPM’s power or performance con-
trol policy - operating system vendors can provide guidance in this area). The second exception is the case where the
platform contains Active cooling devices but does not contain Passive cooling temperature trip points or controls,. In
this case, a hardware based Active cooling mechanism may be implemented without impacting OSPM’s goals. Any
platform that requires both active and passive cooling must allow OSPM to manage the platform thermals via ACPI
defined active and passive cooling interfaces.
3.1 System Power Management
Under OSPM, the OS directs all system and device power state transitions. Employing user preferences and knowledge
of how devices are being used by applications, the OS puts devices in and out of low-power states. Devices that are not
being used can be turned off. Similarly, the OS uses information from applications and user settings to put the system
as a whole into a low- power state. The OS uses ACPI to control power state transitions in hardware.
3.2 Power States
From a user-visible level, the system can be thought of as being in one of the states in the following diagram:
See Section 2.2 for detailed definitions of these states.
In general use, computers alternate between the Working and Sleeping states. In the Working state, the computer is
used to do work. User-mode application threads are dispatched and running. Individual devices can be in low-power
(Dx) states and processors can be in low-power (Cx) states if they are not being used. Any device the system turns off
because it is not actively in use can be turned on with short latency. (What “short” means depends on the device. An
LCD display needs to come on in sub-second times, while it is generally acceptable to wait a few seconds for a printer
to wake.)
3.1. System Power Management
30
