Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 4.10 – continued from previous page
Field
Value
Address (Location) in RTC CMOS
RAM (Must be Bank 0)
CENTURY
8-bit BCD or binary value. This value indicates
the thousand year and hundred year
(Centenary) variables of the date in BCD (19
for this century, 20 for the next) or binary
(x13 for this century, x14 for the next).
The CENTURY field in the FADT will
contain a non-zero value that represents
an offset into the RTC’s CMOS RAM area
that contains the Centenary value for the
date. A value of zero in the CENTURY
field
indicates that the Centenary value is not
supported by this RTC.
4.8.2.5 Legacy/ACPI Select and the SCI Interrupt
As mentioned previously, power management events are generated to initiate an interrupt or hardware sequence. ACPI
operating systems use the SCI interrupt handler to respond to events, while legacy systems use some type of transparent
interrupt handler to respond to these events (that is, an SMI interrupt handler). ACPI-compatible hardware can choose
to support both legacy and ACPI modes or just an ACPI mode. Legacy hardware is needed to support these features for
non-ACPI-compatible operating systems. When the ACPI OS loads, it scans the platform firmware tables to determine
that the hardware supports ACPI, and then if the it finds the SCI_EN bit reset (indicating that ACPI is not enabled), issues
an ACPI activate command to the SMI handler through the SMI command port. The platform firmware acknowledges
the switching to the ACPI model of power management by setting the SCI_EN bit (this bit can also be used to switch
over the event mechanism as illustrated below):
Fig. 4.12: Power Management Events to SMI/SCI Control Logic
The interrupt events (those that generate SMIs in legacy mode and SCIs in ACPI mode) are sent through a decoder
controlled by the SCI_EN bit. For legacy mode this bit is reset, which routes the interrupt events to the SMI interrupt
logic. For ACPI mode this bit is set, which routes interrupt events to the SCI interrupt logic. This bit always returns
set for ACPI-compatible hardware that does not support a legacy power management mode (in other words, the bit is
wired to read as “1” and ignore writes).
The SCI interrupt is defined to be a shareable interrupt and is connected to an OS visible interrupt that uses a shareable
protocol. The FADT has an entry that indicates what interrupt the SCI interrupt is mapped to (see System Description
Table Header).
If the ACPI platform supports both legacy and ACPI modes, it has a register that generates a hardware event (for
example, SMI for IA-PC processors). OSPM uses this register to make the hardware switch in and out of ACPI mode.
4.8. ACPI Register Model
77
