Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
– Centralizing power management information and directives from the user, applications, and hardware in
the OS allows the implementation of more powerful functionality. For example, an OS can have a policy of
dividing I/O operations into normal and lazy. Lazy I/O operations (such as a word processor saving files in
the background) would be gathered up into clumps and done only when the required I/O device is powered
up for some other reason. A non-lazy I/O request made when the required device was powered down would
cause the device to be powered up immediately, the non-lazy I/O request to be carried out, and any pending
lazy I/O operations to be done. Such a policy requires knowing when I/O devices are powered up, knowing
which application I/O requests are lazy, and being able to assure that such lazy I/O operations do not starve.
• Appliance functions, such as answering machines, require globally coherent power decisions. For example, a
telephone-answering application could call the OS and assert, “I am waiting for incoming phone calls; any sleep
state the system enters must allow me to wake and answer the telephone in 1 second.” Then, when the user presses
the “off” button, the system would pick the deepest sleep state consistent with the needs of the phone answering
service.
– Platform firmware has become very complex to deal with power management. It is difficult to make work
with an OS and is limited to static configurations of the hardware.
– There is much less state information for the platform firmware to retain and manage (because the OS man-
ages it).
– Power management algorithms are unified in the OS, yielding much better integration between the OS and
the hardware.
– Because additional ACPI tables (Definition Blocks) can be loaded, for example, when a mobile system
docks, the OS can deal with dynamic machine configurations.
– Because the platform firmware has fewer functions and they are simpler, it is much easier (and therefore
cheaper) to implement and support.
1.3 Legacy Support
ACPI provides support for an orderly transition from legacy hardware to ACPI hardware, and allows for both mecha-
nisms to exist in a single machine and be used as needed.
Table 1.1: Hardware Type vs. OS Type Interaction
Hardware/OS
Legacy OS
ACPI OS with OSPM
Legacy hardware
A legacy OS on legacy
hardware does what it al-
ways did.
If the OS lacks legacy support, legacy support is com-
pletely contained within the hardware functions.
Legacy and ACPI hard-
ware support in machine
It works just like a legacy
OS on legacy hardware.
During boot, the OS tells the hardware to switch from
legacy to OSPM/ACPI mode and from then on, the sys-
tem has full OSPM/ACPI support.
ACPI-only hardware
There is no power manage-
ment.
There is full OSPM/ACPI support.
1.3. Legacy Support
3
