Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
10.2 Control Method Batteries
The following section illustrates the operation and definition of the Control Method Battery.
The Hardware ID for a Control Method Battery is PNP0C0A.
10.2.1 Battery Events
The AML code handling an SCI for a battery event notifies the system of which battery’s status may have changed.
The OS uses the _BST control method to determine the current status of the batteries and what action, if any, should
be taken (for more information about the _BST control method, see Battery Control Methods ). The typical action is
to notify applications monitoring the battery status to provide the user with an up-to-date display of the system battery
state. But in some cases, the action may involve generating an alert or even forcing a system into a sleeping state. In
any case, any changes in battery status should generate an SCI in a timely manner to keep the system power state UI
consistent with the actual state of the system battery (or batteries).
Unlike most other devices, when a battery is inserted or removed from the system, the device itself (the battery bay) is
still considered to be present in the system. For most systems, the _STA for this device will always return a value with
bits 0-3 set and will toggle bit 4 to indicate the actual presence of a battery (see Section 7.2.4 ). When this insertion or
removal occurs, the AML code handler for this event should issue a Notify(battery_device, 0x81) to indicate that the
static battery information has changed. For systems that have battery slots in a docking station or batteries that cannot
be surprise-removed, it may be beneficial or necessary to indicate that the entire device has been removed. In this case,
the standard methods and notifications described in Device Insertion, Removal, and Status Objects should be used.
When the present state of the battery has changed or when the trip point set by the _BTP control method is reached
or crossed, the hardware will assert a general purpose event. The AML code handler for this event issues a No-
tify(battery_device, 0x80) on the battery device. This notification is also sent when the Status Flags returned from
_BMD change.
In the case where the remaining battery capacity becomes critically low, the AML code handler issues a No-
tify(battery_device, 0x80) and reports the battery critical flag in the _BST object. The OS performs an emergency
shutdown. For a full description of the critical battery state, see Low Battery Levels.
Sometimes the value to be returned from _BST or _BIF will be temporarily unknown. In this case, the method may
return the value 0xFFFFFFFF as a placeholder. When the value becomes known, the appropriate notification (0x80
for _BST or 0x81 for BIF) should be issued, in like manner to any other change in the data returned by these methods.
This will cause OSPM to re-evaluate the method–obtaining the correct data value.
When one or more of the status flags returned by the _BMD control method change, AML code issues a No-
tify(battery_device, 0x82) on the battery device unless this change occurs during a call to _BMC and the value of
the status flags in _BMD match the value passed in to _BMC. If the value of the status bits cannot be set to reflect the
action requested by the executing _BMC, the AML code will issue this notification. For example, calling _BMC with
bit 0 set to initiate a calibration cycle while AC power is not available will cause AML to issue a Notify(battery_device,
0x82).
A user can program peak power delivery thresholds in the _BPT control method for each battery. When a threshold is
crossed, the platform firmware such as the embedded controller will assert an SCI interrupt. The AML event handler
for this interrupt issues a Notify(<battery_device>, 0x83) on the battery device.
10.2. Control Method Batteries
689
