Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
value returned by the _CRT object then OSPM must shut the system down. Embedded Hot and Critical trip points may
also be exposed by individual devices within a thermal zone. Upon passing of these trip points, OSPM must decide
whether to shut down the device or the entire system based upon device criticality to system operation. OSPM must
also evaluate the thermal zone’s temperature interfaces when any thermal zone appears in the namespace (for example,
during system initialization) and must initiate a cooling policy as warranted independent of receipt of a temperature
change notification. This allows OSPM to cool systems containing a thermal zone whose temperature has already
exceeded temperature thresholds at initialization time.
An optimally designed system that uses several thresholds can notify OSPM of thermal increase or decrease by raising
an event every several degrees. This enables OSPM to anticipate thermal trends and incorporate heuristics to better
manage the system’s temperature.
To implement a preference towards performance or energy conservation, OSPM can request that the platform change
the priority of active cooling (performance) versus passive cooling (energy conservation/silence) by evaluating the
_SCP (Set Cooling Policy) object for the thermal zone or a corresponding OS-specific interface to individual devices
within a thermal zone.
11.1.2 Dynamically Changing Cooling Temperature Trip Points
The platform or its devices can change the active and passive cooling temperature trip points and notify OSPM to
reevaluate the trip point interfaces to establish the new policy threshold settings. The following are the primary uses
for this type of thermal notification:
• When OSPM changes the platform’s cooling policy from one cooling mode to another.
• When a swappable bay device is inserted or removed. A swappable bay is a slot that can accommodate several
different devices that have identical form factors, such as a CD-ROM drive, disk drive, and so on. Many mobile
PCs have this concept already in place.
• After the crossing of an active or passive trip point is signaled to implement hysteresis.
In each situation, OSPM must be notified to re-evaluate the thermal zone’s trip points via the AML code execution
of a Notify(thermal_zone, 0x81) statement or via an OS specific interface invoked by device drivers for zone devices
participating in the thermal model.
11.1.2.1 OSPM Change of Cooling Policy
When OSPM changes the platform’s cooling policy from one cooling mode to the other, the following occurs:
1. OSPM notifies the platform of the new cooling mode by running the Set Cooling Policy (_SCP) control method
in all thermal zones and invoking the OS-specific Set Cooling Policy interface to all participating devices in each
thermal zone.
2. Thresholds are updated in the hardware and OSPM is notified of the change.
3. OSPM re-evaluates the active and passive cooling temperature trip points for the zone and all devices in the zone
to obtain the new temperature thresholds.
11.1. Thermal Control
722
