Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
• Traditional ACPI platforms may use NMI to notify the OSPM of both corrected and uncorrected errors for a
given error source
• Traditional ACPI platforms may use NMI to report uncorrected errors and the SCI to report corrected errors
• Traditional ACPI platforms may use NMI to report uncorrected errors and polling to notify the OSPM of cor-
rected errors
• HW-reduced ACPI platforms may use GPIO-signaled events, Interrupt-signaled events, or polling to report cor-
rected errors.
18.4.1 Example: Firmware First Handling Using NMI Notification
If the platform chooses to use NMI to report errors, which is the recommended method for uncorrected errors, the
platform follows these steps:
1. System firmware configures the platform to trigger a firmware handler when the error occurs
2. System firmware identifies the error source for which it will handle errors via the error source enumeration
interface by setting the FIRMWARE_FIRST flag
3. System firmware describes the generic error source, and the associated error status block, as described in Generic
Hardware Error Source. System firmware identifies the relation between the generic error source and the original
error source by using the original source ID in the related source ID of Generic Hardware Error Source Structure.
4. When a hardware error reported by the error source occurs, system firmware gains control and handles the error
condition as required. Upon completion system firmware should do the following:
5. Extract the error information from the error source and fill in the error information in the data block of the
generic error source it identified as an alternate in step 3. The error information format follows the specification
in Generic Error Data
6. Set the appropriate bit in the block status field (Generic Error Status Block ) to indicate to the OSPM that a valid
error condition is present.
7. Clears error state from the hardware.
8. Generates an NMI.
At this point, the OSPM NMI handler scans the list of generic error sources to find the error source that reported the
error and processes the error report
18.5 Error Serialization
• The error record serialization feature is used to save and retrieve hardware error information to and from a
persistent store. OSPM interacts with the platform through a platform interface. If the Error Record Serialization
Table (ERST) is present, OSPM uses the ACPI solution described below. Otherwise, OSPM uses the UEFI
runtime variable services to carry out error record persistence operations on UEFI based platforms.
• For error persistence across boots, the platform must implement some form of non-volatile store to save error
records. The amount of space required depends on the platform’s processor architecture. Typically, this store
will be flash memory or some other form of non-volatile RAM.
• Serialized errors are encoded according to the Common Platform Error Record (CPER) format, which is de-
scribed in the appendices of the UEFI Specification. These entries are referred to as error records.
• The Error Record Serialization Interface is designed to be sufficiently abstract to allow hardware vendors flexi-
bility in how they implement their error record serialization hardware. The platform provides details necessary
to communicate with its serialization hardware by populating the ERST with a set of Serialization Instruction
18.5. Error Serialization
865
