Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
the SLP_EN/SLP_TYP bit fields. When waking from the S1 sleeping state, execution control is passed backed to
OSPM immediately, whereas when waking from the S2-S4 states execution control is passed to the platform boot
firmware (execution begins at the CPU’s reset vector). The WAK_STS bit provides a mechanism to separate OSPM’s
sleeping and waking code during an S1 sequence. When the hardware has sequenced the system into the sleeping state
(defined here as the processor is no longer able to execute instructions), any enabled wake event is allowed to set the
WAK_STS bit and sequence the system back on (to the G0 state). If the system does not support the S1 sleeping state,
the WAK_STS bit can always return zero.
If more than a single sleeping state is supported, then the sleeping/wake logic is required to be able to dynamically
sequence between the different sleeping states. This is accomplished by waking the system; OSPM programs the new
sleep state into the SLP_TYP field, and then sets the SLP_EN bit-placing the system again in the sleeping state.
4.8.2.4 Real Time Clock Alarm
If implemented, the Real Time Clock (RTC) alarm must generate a hardware wake event when in the sleeping state.
The RTC can be programmed to generate an alarm. An enabled RTC alarm can be used to generate a wake event when
the system is in a sleeping state. ACPI provides for additional hardware to support OSPM in determining that the RTC
was the source of the wake event: the RTC_STS and RTC_EN bits. Although these bits are optional, if supported they
must be implemented as described here.
If the RTC_STS and RTC_EN bits are not supported, OSPM will attempt to identify the RTC as a possible wake source;
however, it might miss certain wake events. If implemented, the RTC wake feature is required to work in the following
sleeping states: S1-S3. S4 wake is optional and supported through the RTC_S4 flag within the FADT (if set, then the
platform supports RTC wake in the S4 state) *.
ò Note
The G2/S5 “soft off” and the G3 “mechanical off” states are not sleeping states. The OS will disable the RTC_EN
bit prior to entering the G2/S5 or G3 states regardless.
When the RTC generates a wake event the RTC_STS bit will be set. If the RTC_EN bit is set, an RTC hardware power
management event will be generated (which will wake the system from a sleeping state, provided the battery low signal
is not asserted).
Fig. 4.11: RTC Alarm
The RTC wake event status and enable bits are an optional fixed hardware feature and a flag within the FADT
(FIX_RTC) indicates if the register bits are to be used by OSPM. If the RTC wake event status and enable bits are
implemented in fixed hardware, OSPM can determine if the RTC was the source of the wake event without loading the
entire OS. This also gives the platform the capability of indicating an RTC wake source without consuming a GPE bit,
as would be required if RTC wake was not implemented using the fixed hardware RTC feature. If the fixed hardware
feature event bits are not supported, then OSPM will attempt to determine this by reading the RTC’s status field. If the
platform implements the RTC fixed hardware feature, and this hardware consumes resources, the _FIX method can be
used to correlate these resources with the fixed hardware. See _FIX (Fixed Register Resource Provider), for details.
4.8. ACPI Register Model
75
