Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
b. Read the bit corresponding to the PCI Express Function’s Device Port/Type in the Device/Port Type from
PCI Express Register Descriptor below.
If set to 0b, then the PCI Express Register Descriptor does not apply to the PCI Express Function and OSPM
moves to the next Function in the scope of the _HPX method or the next PCI Express Register Descriptor
if there are no more Functions.
If set to 1b, then continue to the next step.
c. Determine if the PCI Express Function is a non-SR-IOV Function, an SR-IOV Physical Function, or an
SR-IOV Virtual Function.
d. Read the bit corresponding to the PCI Express Function’s type in the Function Type from PCI Express
Register Descriptor below.
If set to 0b, then the PCI Express Register Descriptor does not apply to the PCI Express Function and
OSPM moves to the next Function in the scope of the _HPX method or to the next PCI Express Register
Descriptor if there are no more Functions.
If set to 1b, then the PCI Express Register Descriptor applies to the PCI Express Function and OSPM
continues to the next step.
2. Read the Configuration Space Location from PCI Express Register Descriptor below.
a. If Configuration Space Location is 0, then the Match Register Offset and Write Register Offset field’s byte
offset is relative to offset 0 of the Function’s configuration space.
b. If Configuration Space Location is 1, then the Match Register Offset and Write Register Offset field’s byte
offset is relative to the starting offset of the Capability Structure indicated by PCIe Capability ID.
If the Capability ID is 01h (PCI Power Management Capability Structure) or 10h (PCI Express Capability
Structure) then OSPM shall check the Capability Version of the Function’s Capability Structure against
the PCIe Capability ID field. In the event that there are more than one PCI Express Register Descriptors
for a given PCIe Capability ID with different PCIe Capability Versions, OSPM shall use the PCI Express
Register Descriptors with the highest PCIe Capability Version supported by the Function.
There may be more than one instance of a Capability Structure that matches the indicated PCIe Capability
ID. Continue to step 3 for each such instance. If no Capability Structures indicated by PCIe Capability ID
are found, then start back at step 1 above for the next Function in the scope of the _HPX method or the next
PCI Express Register Descriptor if there are no more Functions.
c. If Configuration Space Location is 2, then the Match Register Offset and Write Register Offset field’s byte
offset is relative to the starting offset of the Extended Capability Structure indicated by PCIe Capability ID
and PCIe Capability Version.
In the event that there are more than one PCI Express Register Descriptors for a given PCIe Capability ID
with different PCIe Capability Versions, OSPM shall use the PCI Express Register Descriptors with the
highest PCIe Capability Version supported by the Function.
There may be more than one instance of an Extended Capability Structure that matches the indicated PCIe
Capability ID and PCIe Capability Version. Continue to step 3 for each such instance. If no Extended
Capability Structures indicated by PCIe Capability ID and PCIe Capability Version are found, then start
back at step 1 above for the next Function in the scope of the _HPX method or the next PCI Express Register
Descriptor if there are no more Functions.
d. If Configuration Space Location is 3, then the Match Register Offset and Write Register Offset field’s byte
offset is relative to the starting offset of the Extended Capability Structure indicated by PCIe Capability ID,
PCIe Capability Version, PCIe Vendor ID, VSEC ID, and VSEC Rev.
In the event that there are more than one PCI Express Register Descriptors for a given PCIe Capability ID
with different PCIe Capability Versions, OSPM shall use the PCI Express Register Descriptors with the
highest PCIe Capability Version supported by the Function.
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
392
