Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
State
Status
Definition
D0
Required
Device is on and running and is delivering full functionality and performance to
the user Device is fully compliant with the requirements of the attached network
D1
Optional
No bus transmission allowed No bus reception allowed No interrupts can occur
Device context may be lost
D2
Optional
No bus transmission allowed No bus reception allowed No interrupts can occur
Device context may be lost
D3
Required
Device context is assumed to be lost No bus transmission allowed No bus recep-
tion allowed No interrupts can occur
This document does not specify maximum power and maximum latency requirements for the sleeping states because
these numbers are very different for different network technologies. The device must meet the requirements of the bus
that it attaches to.
Although the descriptions of states D1 and D2 are the same, the choice of whether to implement D1 or D2 or both may
depend on bus services required, power requirements, or time required to restore the physical layer. For example, a
device designed for a particular bus might include state D1 because it needs a bus service such as a bus clock to support
Magic PacketTMwake, and that service is available in the bus device’s D1 power state but not in D2. Also, a device
might include both state D1 and state D2 to provide a choice between lower power and lower latency.
A.9.2 Network Device Power Management Policy
Table A-19: Network Device Power Management Policy
Present
State
Next State
Cause
D0
Dx
System enters sleep state. If wake is enabled, Dx is the lowest power state (for
example, D1, D2, D3) from which the network device supports system wake.
An appropriate time-out has elapsed after a “link down” condition was detected.
Dx is the lowest power state in which the network device can detect “link up.”
D0
D3
System initiated network shutdown. System enters sleep state and wake is either
not enabled or the network device is capable of waking from D3.
D1/D2/D3
D0
System wake (transition to S0), including a wake caused by a network wake
event.
A.9. Network Device Class
1107
