Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.15: OSPM Enabled Firmware Control Structure Feature
Flags
FACS - Flag
Bit
Length
Bit Off-
set
Description
64BIT_WAKE_F
1
0
OSPM sets this bit to indicate to platform firmware that the
X_Firmware_Waking_Vector requires a 64 bit execution envi-
ronment.
This flag can only be set if platform firmware sets
64BIT_WAKE_SUPPORTED_F in the FACS flags field.
Reserved
31
1
The value is zero.
5.2.10.1 Global Lock
The purpose of the ACPI Global Lock is to provide mutual exclusion between the host OS and the platform runtime
firmware. The Global Lock is a 32-bit (DWORD) value in read/write memory located within the FACS and is accessed
and updated by both the OS environment and the SMI environment in a defined manner to provide an exclusive lock.
Note: this is not a pointer to the Global Lock, it is the actual memory location of the lock. The FACS and Global Lock
may be located anywhere in physical memory.
By convention, this lock is used to ensure that while one environment is accessing some hardware, the other environment
is not. By this convention, when ownership of the lock fails because the other environment owns it, the requesting
environment sets a “pending” state within the lock, exits its attempt to acquire the lock, and waits for the owning
environment to signal that the lock has been released before attempting to acquire the lock again. When releasing the
lock, if the pending bit in the lock is set after the lock is released, a signal is sent via an interrupt mechanism to the
other environment to inform it that the lock has been released. During interrupt handling for the “lock released” event
within the corresponding environment, if the lock ownership were still desired an attempt to acquire the lock would be
made. If ownership is not acquired, then the environment must again set “pending” and wait for another “lock release”
signal.
The table below shows the encoding of the Global Lock DWORD in memory.
Table 5.16: Global Lock Structure within the FACS
Field
Bit
Length
Bit Off-
set
Description
Pending
1
0
Non-zero indicates that a request for ownership of the Global Lock is pend-
ing.
Owned
1
1
Non-zero indicates that the Global Lock is Owned.
Reserved
30
2
Reserved for future use.
The following code sequence is used by both OSPM and the firmware to acquire ownership of the Global Lock. If
non-zero is returned by the function, the caller has been granted ownership of the Global Lock and can proceed. If
zero is returned by the function, the caller has not been granted ownership of the Global Lock, the “pending” bit has
been set, and the caller must wait until it is signaled by an interrupt event that the lock is available before attempting to
acquire access again.
ò Note
In the examples that follow, the “GlobalLock” variable is a pointer that has been previously initialized to point to
the 32-bit Global Lock location within the FACS.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
129
