Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
A.6.5.2.2 Internal Flat Panel
In general, panels consume a fixed amount of power. However, some panels are also capable of supporting reduced
refresh. More important, the amount of backlight brightness is a major factor in system power. This clearly needs to be
coordinated with direct ASL control methods for brightness and with ambient light sensing when present. However,
a performance state may be achieved by offsetting the brightness value computed by other methods, either by a fixed
amount or a fixed percentage.
A.6.5.2.3 DVI Full Screen Devices
DVI Devices are normally capable of frequency control and may be able to benefit by frequency control. However,
because of sensitivity to signal loss, DVI devices may have limitations on other types of performance control.
A.6.5.2.4 Standard TV and Analog HDTVs
Standard TV and Analog HDTVs do not appear capable of performance states. Codecs controlling them may be capable
of power saving, however.
A.6.5.2.5 New Devices
The ability to reduce power while continuing to display will be increasingly important.
A.6.5.3 Performance States for Video Controllers/Display Adapters
Adapters are somewhat limited during performance states because they have to continue to support display on one or
more full screen devices. However, they can still do a number of things to support performance states, including
• Changes to basic display and render capabilities, including speed or frequency range supported.
• Feature/Capability/Quality Control - limiting specific hardware features, limiting refresh rates, limiting resolu-
tions.
The limiting factor on what can be supported may sometimes be in the OSPM. If the OSPM support dynamic changes
in these features during a performance state change (even if no other time), more opportunities arise.
Once again, the latency on transitions and the power saved by specific states have to be made available to the OSPM in
order to use these options effectively.
A.7 Input Device Class
The requirements expressed in this section apply to standard types of input devices such as keyboards, keypads, mice,
pointing devices, joysticks, game pads, to devices that combine these kinds of input functionality (composite devices,
and so on), and to new types of input devices such as virtual reality devices, simulation devices, and so on.
A.7. Input Device Class
1102
