Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.244 – continued from previous page
Plug and Play ID
Description
ACPI000E
Time and Alarm Device. This device is a control method-based real-time clock and wake
alarm. See Section 9.17.
ACPI000F
User Presence Detection Device. This device senses user presence (proximity). See Section
9.15)
ACPI0010
Processor container device. Used to declare hierarchical processor topologies (see Section
8.4.2, and Section 8.4.2.1).
ACPI0011
Generic Buttons Device. This device reports button events corresponding to Human Inter-
face Device (HID) control descriptors (see Section 9.18).
ACPI0012
NVDIMM Root Device. This device contains the NVDIMM devices. See Section 9.19 and
Table 5.145.
ACPI0013
Generic Event Device. This device maps Interrupt-signaled events. See Section 5.6.9.
ACPI0014
Wireless Power Calibration Device. This device uses user presence and notification.
ACPI0015
USB4 host interface device. See Links to ACPI-Related Documents under the heading
“USB4 Host Interface Specification”
ACPI0016
Compute Express Link Host Bridge. This device is a Compute Express Link Host bridge.
ACPI0017
Compute Express Link Root Object. This device represents the root of a CXL capable
device hierarchy. It shall be present whenever the platform allows OSPM to dynamically
assign CXL endpoints to a platform address space.
ACPI0018
Audio Composition Device. This is an ACPI-enumerated device that describes audio com-
ponent logical connection information within a system.
ACPI0019
Firmware Inventory Device. This device object is used to convey version information of
firmware installed within the platform. There is only one device of this type in the system.
5.6.8 Predefined ACPI Names for Objects, Methods, and Resources
The following table summarizes the predefined names for the ACPI namespace objects, control methods, and resource
descriptor fields defined in this specification. Provided for each name is a short description and a reference to the section
number and page number of the actual definition of the name. ACPI names that are predefined by other specifications
are also listed along with their corresponding specification reference.
ò Note
All names that begin with an underscore are reserved for ACPI use only.
Table 5.245: Predefined ACPI Names
Name
Description
_ACx
Active Cooling – returns the active cooling policy threshold values.
_ADR
Address: (1) returns the address of a device on its parent bus. (2) returns a unique ID for the
display output device. (3) resource descriptor field.
_AEI
Designates those GPIO interrupts that shall be handled by OSPM as ACPI events.
_ALC
Ambient Light Chromaticity – returns the ambient light color chromaticity.
_ALI
Ambient Light Illuminance – returns the ambient light brightness.
_ALN
Alignment – base alignment, resource descriptor field.
_ALP
Ambient Light Polling – returns the ambient light sensor polling frequency.
_ALR
Ambient Light Response – returns the ambient light brightness to display brightness mappings.
_ALT
Ambient Light Temperature – returns the ambient light color temperature.
continues on next page
5.6. ACPI Event Programming Model
343
