CHAPTER
SIX
DEVICE CONFIGURATION
This section specifies the objects OSPM uses to configure devices. There are three types of configuration objects:
• Device identification objects associate platform devices with Plug and Play IDs.
• Device configuration objects declare and configure hardware resources and characteristics for devices enumerated
via ACPI.
• Device insertion and removal objects provide mechanisms for handling dynamic insertion and removal of devices.
There are two types of Device objects:
• A Full Device Descriptor, which contains the complete description of a devices that cannot be discovered through
any other standard Bus enumeration mechanism. This type of Device object is enumerated by the ACPI subsystem
(OSPM), and contains a Hardware ID object (_HID).
• An Augmented Device Descriptor, which contains additional device information that is not provided from the
Device itself, yet is needed by the Device or Bus driver in order to properly configure and use the device. This
type of device is enumerated by a bus-specific enumeration mechanism, and OSPM uses the Address (_ADR) to
match the ACPI Device object in the Namespace to the device discovered through bus enumeration.
This section also defines the ACPI device-resource descriptor formats. Device-resource descriptors are used as param-
eters by some of the device configuration objects.
6.1 Device Identification Objects
Device identification objects associate each platform device with a Plug and Play device ID for each device. All the
device identification objects are listed in the table below:
Table 6.1: Device Identification Objects
Object
Description
_ADR
Object that evaluates to a device’s address on its parent bus.
_CID
Object that evaluates to a device’s Plug and Play-compatible ID list.
_CLS
Object that evaluates to a package of coded device-class information.
_DDN
Object that associates a logical software name (for example, COM1) with a device.
_HID
Object that evaluates to a device’s Plug and Play hardware ID.
_HRV
Object that evaluates to an integer hardware revision number.
_MLS
Object that provides a human readable description of a device in multiple languages.
_PLD
Object that provides physical location description information.
_SUB
Object that evaluates to a device’s Plug and Play subsystem ID.
_SUN
Object that evaluates to the slot-unique ID number for a slot.
_STR
Object that contains a Unicode identifier for a device. Can also be used for thermal zones.
continues on next page
360
