Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
(continued from previous page)
*ResumeVector = NULL;
return 0;
}
On HW-reduced ACPI platforms all run-time system state transitions (for example, to and from the S0 state) are done
similarly, but include the following instead of PM1*_BLK register bit manipulation:
After ensuring that any desired wake-capable interrupts are enabled, OSPM writes the HW-reduced Sleep Type value
to the Sleep Control Register and spins waiting for the WAK_STS bit of the Sleep Status Register to be set, indicating
a platform transition to the Working state.
Implementation Note:
OSPM implementation-specific flows for OSPM states are independent of platform system states. Example: S4 is a
platform FW mechanism to achieve ‘hibernate-like’ behavior and is not equivalent to OSPM’s hibernate. The platform
FW must advertise \_S4 if it supports the system S4 state.
7.4.2.1 System \_S0 State (Working)
While the system is in the S0 state, it is in the system working state. The behavior of this state is defined as:
• The processors are either running, or in a C-state, or in an LPI state. The processor-complex context is maintained
and instructions are executed as defined by any of these processor states.
• Dynamic RAM context is maintained and is read/write by the processors.
• Devices states are individually managed by the operating software and can be in any device state (D0, D1, D2,
D3hot, or D3).
• Power Resources are in a state compatible with the current device states.
Transition into the S0 state from some system sleeping state is automatic, and by virtue that instructions are being
executed OSPM, assumes the system to be in the S0 state.
7.4.2.2 System \_S1 State (Sleeping with Processor Context Maintained)
While the system is in the S1 sleeping state, its behavior is the following:
• The processors are not executing instructions. The processor-complex context is maintained.
• Dynamic RAM context is maintained.
• Power Resources are in a state compatible with the system S1 state. All Power Resources that supply a System-
Level reference of S0 are in the OFF state.
• Devices states are compatible with the current Power Resource states. Only devices that solely reference Power
Resources that are in the ON state for a given device state can be in that device state. In all other cases, the device
is in the D3 (off) state. (Or it is at least assumed to be in the D3 state by its device driver. For example, if the
device doesn’t explicitly describe how it can stay in some non-off state while the system is in a sleeping state, the
operating software must assume that the device can lose its power and state.)
• Devices that are enabled to wake the system and that can do so from their current device state can initiate a
hardware event that transitions the system state to S0. This transition causes the processor to continue execution
where it left off.
To transition into the S1 state, the OSPM must flush all processor caches.
7.4. OEM-Supplied System-Level Control Methods
510
