Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
OSPM also uses the Set Power State operation to enable power management features such as wake (described in Power
and Performance Management).
For power-down operations (transitions from Dx to some deeper Dy), OSPM first evaluates the appropriate control
method for the target state (_PSx), then turns-off any unused power resources. Notice that this might not mean that
power is actually removed from the device. If other active devices are sharing a power resource, the power resource will
remain on. In the power-up case (transitions from some Dx back to the shallower D0), the power resources required for
D0 are first turned on, and then the control method (_PS0) is evaluated.
3.4.3 Getting Device Power Status
OSPM uses the Get Power Status operation to determine the current power configuration (states and features), as well
as the status of any batteries supported by the device. The device can signal an SCI to inform the OS of changes in
power status. For example, a device can trigger an interrupt to inform the OS that the battery has reached low power
level.
Devices use the ACPI event model to signal power status changes (for example, battery status changes) to OSPM. The
platform signals events to the OS via an interrupt, either SCI, or GPIO. An interrupt status bit is set to indicate the event
to the OS. The OS runs the control method associated with the event. This control method signals to the OS which
device has changed.
ACPI supports two types of batteries: batteries that report only basic battery status information and batteries that
support the Smart Battery System Implementers Forum “Smart Battery Specification”. For batteries that report only
basic battery status information (such as total capacity and remaining capacity), the OS uses control methods from the
battery’s description table to read this information. To read status information for Smart Batteries, the OS can use a
standard Smart Battery driver that directly interfaces to Smart Batteries through the appropriate bus enumerator.
3.4.4 Waking the System
The wake operation enables devices to wake the system from a sleeping or low-power idle state. This operation must
not depend on the CPU because the CPU will not be executing instructions.
The OS ensures any bridges between the device and the core logic are in the lowest power state in which they can still
forward the wake signal. When a device with wake enabled decides to wake the system, it sends the defined signal on
its bus. Bus bridges must forward this signal to upstream bridges using the appropriate signal for that bus. Thus, the
signal eventually reaches the core chip set (for example, an ACPI chip set), which in turn wakes the system.
Before putting the system in a sleeping power state, the OS determines which devices are needed to wake the system
based on application requests, and then enables wake on those devices in a device and bus specific manner.
The OS enables the wake feature on devices by setting that device’s SCI Enable bit or unmasking its wake interrupt.
The location of this control is listed in the device’s entry in the description table. Only devices that have their wake
feature enabled can wake the system. The OS keeps track of the power states that the wake devices support, and keeps
the system in a power state in which the wake can still wake the system (based on capabilities reported in the description
table).
When the system is in a Sleeping or low-power idle state and a wake device decides to wake the system, it signals to
the core logic. The status bit corresponding to the device waking the system is set, and the core logic resumes the
system. After the OS is running again, it determines the device responsible for the wake event by either running a
control method (for wake events) or processing the device’s ISR (for wake interrupts).
• Besides using ACPI mechanism to enable a particular device to wake the system, an ACPI platform must also
be able to record and report the wake source to OSPM. When a system is woken from certain states (such as the
S4 state), it may start out in non-ACPI mode. In this case, the SCI status bit may be cleared when ACPI mode
is re-entered. However the platform must still attempt to record the wake source for retrieval by OSPM at a later
point.
3.4. Controlling Device Power
36
