Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 6.12 – continued from previous page
PCIe Capability Version
Integer
This field contains information about the Capability Version/Extended
Capability Version and applies in the following conditions:
- Configuration Space Location is 1 (Capability Structure) and Capability
ID is 01h (PCI Power Management Capability Structure); or
- Configuration Space Location is 1 (Capability Structure) and Capability
ID is 10h (PCI Express Capability Structure); or
- Configuration Space Location is 2 (Extended Capability Structure); or
- Configuration Space Location is 3 (Vendor-Specific Extended
Capability); or
- Configuration Space Location is 4 (Designated Vendor-Specific
Extended Capability).
Bit [4] indicates the applicability of the Capability Version/Extended
Capability Version in bits [3:0]. Defined values are:
- 0b: The PCI Express Register Descriptor applies to Capability
Structures/Extended Capability Structures with Capability Versions that
are equal to the version in bits [3:0].
- 1b: The PCI Express Register Descriptor applies to Capability
Structures/Extended Capability Structures with Capability Versions that
are greater than or equal to the version in bits [3:0].
Bits [3:0] indicate the Capability Version of the Capability
Structures/Extended Capability Structure. Note that the version of the
Capability Structure/Extended Capability Structure is always 4 bits except
for the PCI Power Management Capability Structure whose Version field
is only 3 bits. For the PCI Power Management Capability structure, this
field shall contain the Version in bits [2:0] and bit [3] shall be 0b.
All other bits are reserved.
PCIe Vendor ID
Integer
If Configuration Space Location is 3 (Vendor-Specific Extended
Capability Structure), this field indicates the vendor in the Vendor ID
register at offset 0 of the Function’s configuration space to which the PCI
Express Register Descriptor applies.
If Configuration Space Location is 4 (Designated Vendor-Specific
Extended Capability Structure), this field indicates the vendor in the
DVSEC Vendor ID register at offset 4 in the Designated Vendor-Specific
Extended Capability Structure to which the PCI Express Register
Descriptor applies.
This field only applies if Configuration Space Location is 3
(Vendor-Specific Extended Capability Structure) or 4 (Designated
Vendor-Specific Extended Capability Structure).
continues on next page
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
396
