Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
The 32-bit command field is used to select one of the defined commands for the platform to perform. On Initiator
subspaces the OSPM is responsible for populating this field, alongside the command’s payload, length and flags when
sending a command. On command completion, the OSPM is also responsible for interpreting the length and payload
fields to ascertain if any response was sent by the platform. For Responder subspaces, the OSPM is responsible for
interpreting the command and payload fields to ascertain the nature of the notification that was sent. The format for the
flags field is shown in the table below.
Table 14.13: Initiator Responder Communications Channel Flags
Field
Bit
Length
Bit Off-
set
Description
Notify on comple-
tion
1
0
For Initiator subspaces, this field indicates to the platform that it must
generate an interrupt when the command has completed. Setting
this bit to 1 when sending a command requests that completion of
the command is signaled via the platform interrupt. Setting this bit
to 0 when sending a command requests that no interrupt is asserted
when the command is completed. For Responder subspaces, if the
doorbell field of the Responder subspace is non-zero, and this flag
is set, the OSPM must access the doorbell once it has processed the
notification. For Initiator subspaces, this bit is ignored by the plat-
form if the Platform Interrupt field of the Platform Communications
Channel Global Flags is set to zero.
Reserved
31
1
14.4 Reduced PCC Subspace Shared Memory Region
Table 14.14: Reduced PCC Subspace Shared Memory Region
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Signature
4
0
The PCC signature. The signature of a subspace is computed by a
bitwise-or of the value 0x50434300 with the subspace ID. For ex-
ample, subspace 3 has the signature 0x50434303.
Communication
Subspace
–
4
Memory region for reading/writing PCC data. The maximum size
of this region is 4 bytes smaller than the size of the shared memory
region (specified in the Type 5 PCC Subspace structure). When a
command is sent to or received from the platform, the size of the
data in this space will be Length (expressed above) minus the 4 bytes
taken up by the Signature.
14.4. Reduced PCC Subspace Shared Memory Region
809
