Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.10 – continued from previous page
WBINVD
1
0
Processor properly implements a functional
equivalent to the WBINVD IA-32 instruction. If
set, signifies that the WBINVD instruction cor-
rectly flushes the processor caches, maintains
memory coherency, and upon completion of the
instruction, all caches for the current processor
contain no cached data other than what OSPM
references and allows to be cached. If this flag is
not set, the ACPI OS is responsible for disabling
all ACPI features that need this function. This
field is maintained for ACPI 1.0 processor com-
patibility on existing systems. Processors in new
ACPI-compatible systems are required to support
this function and indicate this to OSPM by setting
this field.
WBINVD_FLUSH
1
1
If set, indicates that the hardware flushes all
caches on the WBINVD instruction and main-
tains memory coherency, but does not guaran-
tee the caches are invalidated. This provides the
complete semantics of the WBINVD instruction,
and provides enough to support the system sleep-
ing states. If neither of the WBINVD flags is
set, the system will require FLUSH_SIZE and
FLUSH_STRIDE to support sleeping states. If
the FLUSH parameters are also not supported,
the machine cannot support sleeping states S1,
S2, or S3.
PROC_C1
1
2
A one indicates that the C1 power state is sup-
ported on all processors.
P_LVL2_UP
1
3
A zero indicates that the C2 power state is config-
ured to only work on a uniprocessor (UP) system.
A one indicates that the C2 power state is con-
figured to work on a UP or multiprocessor (MP)
system.
PWR_BUTTON
1
4
A zero indicates the power button is handled as a
fixed feature programming model; a one indicates
the power button is handled as a control method
device. If the system does not have a power but-
ton, this value would be “1” and no power but-
ton device would be present. Independent of the
value of this field, the presence of a power button
device in the namespace indicates to OSPM that
the power button is handled as a control method
device.
continues on next page
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
120
