Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
19.6.76 LNotEqual (Logical Not Equal)
Syntax:
LNotEqual ( Source1, Source2 )
=> Boolean
Source1 != Source2 => Boolean
Arguments
Source1 and Source2 must each evaluate to an integer, a string, or a buffer. The data type of Source1 dictates the
required type of Source2. Source2 is implicitly converted if necessary to match the type of Source1.
Description
If Source1 is not equal to Source2, True is returned; otherwise False is returned. Equivalent to LNot(LEqual()).See the
description of the LEqual operator.
19.6.77 Load (Load Definition Block)
Syntax:
Load (Object, Result) => Boolean
Arguments
The Object parameter can refer to one of the following object types:
1. An operation region field
2. An operation region directly
3. An ASL Buffer object
If the object is an operation region, the operation region must be in SystemMemory space. The Definition Block should
contain an ACPI DESCRIPTION_HEADER of type SSDT. The Definition Block must be totally contained within the
supplied operation region, operation region field, or Buffer object. OSPM reads this table into memory, the checksum
is verified, and then it is loaded into the ACPI namespace.
Result is optional and is a Boolean indicating the status of the operation. A value of zero (false) means the operation
failed. Any other value means that the operation was successful. Also, this value is always returned as the function
return value
Description
Performs a run-time load of a Definition Block. Any table loaded via an operation region must be in memory marked
as AddressRangeReserved or AddressRangeNVS. The OS can also check the OEM Table ID and Revision ID against
a database for a newer revision Definition Block of the same OEM Table ID and load it instead.
The default namespace location to load the Definition Block is relative to the root of the namespace. The new Definition
Block can override this by specifying absolute names or by adjusting the namespace location using the Scope operator.
Loading a Definition Block is a synchronous operation. Upon completion of the operation, the Definition Block has
been loaded. The control methods defined in the Definition Block are not executed during load time.
19.6. ASL Operator Reference
999
