Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
CPU configuration.
Platform runtime firmware restores the pre-sleep configuration or initial boot configuration of each CPU (MSR,
MTRR, firmware update, SMBase, and so on). Interrupts must be disabled (for IA-32 processors, disabled by
CLI instruction).
Memory controller configuration.
the configuration is lost during the sleeping state, the platform runtime firmware initializes the memory controller
to its pre-sleep configuration or initial boot configuration.
Cache memory configuration.
If the configuration is lost during the sleeping state, the platform runtime firmware initializes the cache controller
to its pre-sleep configuration or initial boot configuration.
Functional device configuration.
The platform runtime firmware doesn’t need to configure/restore context of functional devices such as a network
interface (even if it is physically included in chipset) or interrupt controller. OSPM is responsible for restoring
all context of these devices. The only requirement for the hardware and platform runtime firmware is to ensure
that interrupts are not asserted by devices when the control is passed to OS.
ACPI registers.
SCI_EN bit must be set on non-HW-reduced ACPI platforms, and all event status/enable bits (PM1x_STS,
PM1x_EN, GPEx_STS and GPEx_EN) must not be changed by platform runtime firmware.
ò Note
The platform runtime firmware may reconfigure the CPU, memory controller, and cache memory controller to either
the pre-sleeping configuration or the initial boot configuration. OSPM must accommodate both configurations.
When waking from an S4BIOS sleeping state, the platform boot firmware initializes a minimum number of devices
such as CPU, memory, cache, chipset and boot devices. After initializing these devices, the platform boot firmware
restores memory context from non-volatile memory such as hard disk, and jumps to waking vector.
As mentioned previously, waking from an S4 state is treated the same as a cold boot: the platform boot firmware runs
POST and then initializes memory to contain the ACPI system description tables. After it has finished this, it can call
OSPM loader, and control is passed to OSPM.
When waking from S4 (either S4OS or S4BIOS), the platform boot firmware may optionally set SCI_EN bit before
passing control to OSPM. In this case, interrupts must be disabled (for IA-32 processors, disabled CLI instruction)
until the control is passed to OSPM and the chipset must be configured in ACPI mode.
16.3.1 Placing the System in ACPI Mode
When a platform initializes from a cold boot (mechanical off or from an S4 or S5 state), the hardware platform may
be configured in a legacy configuration, if not a HW-reduced ACPI platform. From these states, the platform boot
firmware software initializes the computer as it would for a legacy operating system. When control is passed to the
operating system, OSPM will check the SCI_EN bit and if it is not set will then enable ACPI mode by first finding
the ACPI tables, and then by generating a write of the ACPI_ENABLE value to the SMI_CMD port (as described in
the FADT). The hardware platform will set the SCI_EN bit to indicate to OSPM that the hardware platform is now
configured for ACPI.
ò Note
Before SCI is enabled, no SCI interrupt can occur. Nor can any SCI interrupt occur immediately after ACPI is on.
The SCI interrupt can only be signaled after OSPM has enabled one of the GPE/PM1 enable bits.
16.3. Initialization
834
