Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
A.8.3 Modem Device Power Management Policy
Table A-17: Modem Device Power Management Policy
Present
State
Next State
Cause
D2/D3
D0
System issues a bus command to enter the D0 state (for example, an application
is answering or originating a call).
D0
D2
System issues a bus command to enter the D2 state. (for example, an application
is listening for an incoming call).
D0
D3
System issues a bus command to enter the D3 state (for example, all applications
have closed the Modem device).
A.8.4 Modem Device Wake Events
For any type of modem device, wake events (if supported and enabled) are only generated in response to detected
“ringing” from an incoming call. All other events associated with modems (V.8bis messages, and so on) require that
the PC be in the “working” state to capture them. The methods and signals used to generate the wake may vary as a
function of the modem connection (bus) type and modem architecture.
Machine wake is allowed from any modem power state (D0, D2, and D3), and is accomplished by methods described in
the appropriate bus power management specification (PCI, USB, PCCARD), or by ACPI system board control methods
(for Modem on Motherboard implementations).
If the specific modem implementation or connection type does not enable it to assert system wake signaling, these
modems will not be able to wake the machine. The OS modem policy owner will have to retain the PC in the “working”
state to perform all types of event detection (including ringing).
A.8.5 Modem Device Minimum Power Capabilities
A modem or similar device conforming to this specification must support the D0 and D3 states. Support of the D2 state
is optional.
A.9 Network Device Class
The requirements expressed in this section apply to Ethernet and token ring adapters. ATM and ISDN adapters are not
supported by this specification.
A.9.1 Network Device Power State Definitions
For the purpose of the following state definitions “no bus transmission” means that transmit requests from the host
processor are not honored, and “no bus reception” means that received data are not transferred to host memory.
Table A-18: Network Device Power State Definitions
A.9. Network Device Class
1106
