CHAPTER
ELEVEN
THERMAL MANAGEMENT
This chapter describes the ACPI thermal model and specifies the ACPI Namespace objects OSPM uses for thermal
management of the platform.
11.1 Thermal Control
ACPI defines interfaces that allow OSPM to be proactive in its system cooling policies. With OSPM in control of the
operating environment, cooling decisions can be made based on the system’s application load, the user’s preference
towards performance or energy conservation, and thermal heuristics. Graceful shutdown of devices or the entire system
at critical heat levels becomes possible as well. The following sections describe the ACPI thermal model and the ACPI
Namespace objects available to OSPM to apply platform thermal management policy.
The ACPI thermal model is based around conceptual platform regions called thermal zones that physically contain
devices, thermal sensors, and cooling controls. Generally speaking, the entire platform is one large thermal zone, but
the platform can be partitioned into several ACPI thermal zones if necessary to enable optimal thermal management.
ACPI Thermal zones are a logical collection of interfaces to temperature sensors, trip points, thermal property infor-
mation, and thermal controls. Thermal zone interfaces apply either thermal zone wide or to specific devices, including
processors, contained within the thermal zone. ACPI defines namespace objects that provide the thermal zone-wide in-
terfaces in Section 11.4. A subset of these objects may also be defined under devices. OS implementations compatible
with the ACPI 3.0 thermal model, interface with these objects but also support OS native device driver interfaces that
perform similar functions at the device level. This allows the integration of devices with embedded thermal sensors
and controls, perhaps not accessible by AML, to participate in the ACPI thermal model through their inclusion in the
ACPI thermal zone. OSPM is responsible for applying an appropriate thermal policy when a thermal zone contains
both thermal objects and native OS device driver interfaces for thermal control.
Some devices in a thermal zone may be comparatively large producers of thermal load in relation to other devices in the
thermal zone. Devices may also have varying degrees of thermal sensitivity. For example, some devices may tolerate
operation at a significantly higher temperature than other devices. As such, the platform can provide OSPM with
information about the platform’s device topology and the resulting influence of one device’s thermal load generation
on another device. This information must be comprehended by OSPM for it to achieve optimal thermal management
through the application of cooling controls.
ACPI expects all temperatures to be represented in tenths of degrees. This resolution is deemed sufficient to enable
OSPM to perform robust platform thermal management.
720
