Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 8.8: Worst case wake latency
Note that other worst case paths could end up determining the WCWL, but what is described above is expected to be
the most common. For example, there could be another period between the OS making the idle request and the point
of no return where the platform does not check for wake up events, and which is longer than the time taken to enter and
exit the power state. In that case that period would become the worst case wakeup latency.
Minimum residency (MR) is the time after which a state becomes more energy efficient than any shallower state. This
parameter answers the fundamental question: how long does the hierarchy node need to stay in the idle state to overcome
the energy cost of transitioning in/out, and make choosing that state a net win relative to shallower alternatives? Note
that this also includes comparing against not entering an idle state and keeping the node running. This is illustrated in
Energy of states A,B and C versus sleep duration, which shows the energy associated with three different state choices
as a function of the sleep duration. Note that State A’s MR relative to keeping the node running is not pictured.
Generally, minimum residency and worst case wakeup latency will be larger for deeper states, however this may not
always be the case. Taking a different example to the above, consider two system level states, StateY and StateZ, with
similar entry overhead but where StateZ saves more power than StateY. An abstract state list might look like:
StateX: MR = 100 us
StateY: MR = 1000 us
StateZ: MR = 800 us, power resource A must be OFF
From an energy perspective, StateZ is always preferred, but in this example, StateZ is only available when certain
device dependencies are met. This makes StateY attractive when the dependencies cannot be met. Despite being the
deeper (lower power) state, StateZ has a lower MR than StateY since the entry overheads are similar and StateZ’s lower
power more quickly amortizes the transition cost. Although the crossover, which sets MR, should generally be versus
the next shallowest state, MR is defined relative to any shallower (higher power) state to deal with cases like this. In
this case, StateZ’s MR is set by the crossover with StateX since StateZ (if allowed based on device dependencies) is
always preferred to StateY. To achieve the lowest energy, OSPM must select the deepest (lowest power) state for which
all entry constraints are satisfied and should not assume that deeper states are not viable just because a shallower state’s
WCWL/MR threshold was not met.
Since WCWL may be used by OSPM to restrict idle state selection and guarantee response times to critical interrupts,
it should be set conservatively (erring on the high side) so that OSPM is not surprised with worse than specified
interrupt response time. On the other hand, MR helps OSPM make efficient decisions. If MR is inaccurate in a certain
scenario and OSPM chooses a state which is deeper or shallower than optimal for a particular idle period, there may be
some wasted energy but the system will not be functionally broken. This is not to say that MR doesn’t matter -energy
8.4. Declaring Processors
542
