Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
10.2.2 Battery Control Methods
The Control Method Battery is a battery with an AML code interface between the battery and the host PC. The battery
interface is completely accessed by AML code control methods, allowing the OEM to use any type of battery and any
kind of communication interface supported by ACPI. OSPM requires accurate battery data to perform optimal power
management policy and to provide the end user with a meaningful estimation of remaining battery life. As such, control
methods that return battery information should calculate this information rather than return hard coded data.
A Control Method Battery is described as a device object. Each device object supporting the Control Method Battery
interface contains the following additional control methods. When there are two or more batteries in the system, each
battery will have an independent device object in the namespace.
Table 10.3: Battery Control Methods
Object
Description
_BCT
Returns battery estimated charging time.
_BIF
Returns static information about a battery (in other words, model number, serial number, design
voltage, and so on).
_BIX
Returns extended static information about a battery (in other words, model number, serial number,
design voltage, and so on).
_BMA
Sets the averaging interval of the battery capacity measurement, in milliseconds.
_BMC
Control calibration and charging.
_BMD
Returns battery information related to battery recalibration and charging control.
_BMS
Sets the sampling time of the battery capacity measurement, in milliseconds.
_BPC
Returns static variables that are associated with system power characteristics on the battery path
and power threshold support settings.
_BPS
Returns the power delivery capabilities of the battery at the present time.
_BPT
Control method to set a Battery Power Threshold.
_BST
Returns the current battery status (in other words, dynamic information about the battery, such
as whether the battery is currently charging or discharging, an estimate of the remaining battery
capacity, and so on).
_BTH
Communicates battery thermal throttle limit set by battery thermal zone.
_BTM
Returns battery estimated runtime at the present average rate of drain, or the runtime at a specified
rate.
_BTP
Sets the Battery Trip point, which generates an SCI when batterycapacity reaches the specified
point.
_OSC
OSPM Capabilities conveyance for batteries.
_PCL
List of pointers to the device objects representing devices powered by the battery - see Section
10.3.2
_STA
Returns general status of the battery - see Section 6.3.7.
A Control Method Battery device declaration in the ACPI namespace requires the _GLK object if potentially con-
tentious accesses to device resources are performed by non-OS code. See _GLK (Global Lock) for details about the
_GLK object.
10.2. Control Method Batteries
690
