Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
• At least one Smart Battery
• A Smart Battery Charger
• Either a Smart Battery System Manager or a Smart Battery Selector if more than one Smart Battery is supported
In such a subsystem, a standard way of communicating with a Smart Battery and Smart Battery Charger is through the
SMBus physical protocols. The Smart Battery System Manager or Smart Battery Selector provides event notification
(battery insertion/removal, and so on) and charger SMBus routing capability for any Smart Battery subsystem. A
typical Smart Battery subsystem is illustrated below:
Fig. 10.1: Typical Smart Battery Subsystem (SBS)
SMBus defines a fixed 7-bit slave address per device. This means that all batteries in the system have the same ad-
dress (defined to be 0xB). The slave addresses associated with Smart Battery subsystem components are shown in the
following table.
Table 10.1: Example SMBus Device Slave Addresses
SMBus Device Description
SMBus Slave Address (A0-A6)
SMBus Host Slave Interface
0x8
Smart Battery Charger/Charger Selector or Charger System Manager
0x9
Smart Battery System Manager or Smart Battery Selector
0xA
Smart Battery
0xB
Each SMBus device has up to 256 registers that are addressed through the SMBus protocol’s Command value. SMBus
devices are addressed by providing the slave address with the desired register’s Command value. Each SMBus register
can have non-linear registers; that is, command register 1 can have a 32-byte string, while command register 2 can have
a byte, and command register 3 can have a word.
The SMBus host slave interface provides a standard mechanism for the host CPU to generate SMBus protocol com-
mands that are required to communicate with SMBus devices (in other words, the Smart Battery components). ACPI
defines such an SMB-HC that resides in embedded controller address space; however, an OS can support any SMB-HC
that has a native SMB-HC device driver.
10.1. Smart Battery Subsystems
683
