Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
9.19.7.7 Function Index 4 - Clear Uncorrectable Error
The Clear Uncorrectable Error Function allows system software to clear uncorrectable errors from the NVDIMM based
on System Physical Address (SPA). Uncorrectable errors reported by the Query ARS Status function can be cleared
utilizing this mechanism.
For each uncorrectable error range length covered by the specified SPA range that contains an uncorrectable error,
platform software shall clear the error and may modify the data at those addresses. For each uncorrectable error range
length covered by the specified SPA range that does not contain an uncorrectable error, platform software shall do
nothing.
The Clear Uncorrectable Error SPA Range Base shall be aligned to the Clear Uncorrectable Error Range Length Unit
Size and the Clear Uncorrectable Error Range Length must be an integer multiple of the Clear Uncorrectable Error
Range Length Unit Size. The Clear Uncorrectable Error request shall result in an Invalid Parameter error status if these
rules are not followed.
Attempting to clear an error with a range length that overruns the end of a region shall result in an Invalid Parameter
error status.
Attempting to clear an error with a range length that is greater than the range of uncorrectable errors is not considered
a failure.
Attempting to clear an error from an address that does not currently have an uncorrectable error is not considered a
failure.
ò Note
The data contained in the locations that are cleared with this command are indeterminate. Care must be taken when
using this command since once the error has been cleared, subsequent reads of those cleared locations will cause
silent data corruption if software is unaware that the original contents were lost. Software should only utilize this
command if it can guarantee that the locations have been retired from further use or will be written with valid data
before the locations are read.
OSPM may call Clear Uncorrectable Error on an ARS error range that was injected via the ARS Error Inject function.
If the platform supports this, it should ultimately treat it as if the ARS Error Inject Clear function was called. If the
platform does not support this, it should fail with an Invalid Input Parameter error.
9.19.7.7.1 Function Input
Table 9.26: Clear Uncorrectable Error - Input Buffer
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Clear Uncorrectable
Error
SPA
Range
Base
8
0
In bytes Starting location from which to clear the uncorrectable er-
ror. This address should be aligned to the Clear Uncorrectable Er-
ror Range Length Unit Size reported in the Query ARS Capabilities
function (see Function Index 1 - Query ARS Capabilities.
Clear Uncorrectable
Error Range Length
8
8
In bytes Length of the region to clear the uncorrectable error from.
This length should be an integer multiple of the Clear Uncorrectable
Error Range Length Unit Size reported in the Query ARS Capabili-
ties function (see Function Index 1 - Query ARS Capabilities).
9.19. NVDIMM Devices
664
