Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
4.6.4 Cross Device Dependencies
Cross Device Dependency is a condition in which an operation to a device interferes with the operation of other unre-
lated devices, or allows other unrelated devices to interfere with its behavior. This condition is not supportable and can
cause platform failures. ACPI provides no support for cross device dependencies and suggests that devices be designed
to not exhibit this behavior. The following two examples describe cross device dependencies:
4.6.4.1 Example 1: Related Device Interference
This example illustrates a cross device dependency where a device interferes with the proper operation of other unrelated
devices. Device A has a dependency that when it is being configured it blocks all accesses that would normally be
targeted for Device B. Thus, the device driver for Device B cannot access Device B while Device A is being configured;
therefore, it would need to synchronize access with the driver for Device A. High performance, multithreaded operating
systems cannot perform this kind of synchronization without seriously impacting performance.
To further illustrate the point, assume that Device A is a serial port and Device B is a hard drive controller. If these
devices demonstrate this behavior, then when a software driver configures the serial port, accesses to the hard drive
need to block. This can only be done if the hard disk driver synchronizes access to the disk controller with the serial
driver. Without this synchronization, hard drive data will be lost when the serial port is being configured.
4.6.4.2 Example 2: Unrelated Device Interference
This example illustrates a cross-device dependency where a device demonstrates a behavior that allows other unrelated
devices to interfere with its proper operation. Device A exhibits a programming behavior that requires atomic back-
to-back write accesses to successfully write to its registers; if any other platform access is able to break between the
back-to-back accesses, then the write to Device A is unsuccessful. If the Device A driver is unable to generate atomic
back-to-back accesses to its device, then it relies on software to synchronize accesses to its device with every other
driver in the system; then a device cross dependency is created and the platform is prone to Device A failure.
4.7 ACPI Hardware Features
This section describes the different hardware features defined by the ACPI interface. These features are categorized as
the following:
• Fixed Hardware Features
• Generic Hardware Features
Fixed hardware features reside in a number of the ACPI-defined address spaces at the locations described by the ACPI
programming model. Generic hardware features reside in one of four address spaces (system I/O, system memory, PCI
configuration, embedded controller, or serial device I/O space) and are described by the ACPI Namespace through the
declaration of AML control methods.
Fixed hardware features have exact definitions for their implementation. Although many fixed hardware features are
optional, if implemented they must be implemented as described since OSPM manipulates the registers of fixed hard-
ware devices and expects the defined behavior. Functional fixed hardware provides functional equivalents of the fixed
hardware feature interfaces as described in Generic Hardware Programming Model
Generic hardware feature implementation is flexible. This logic is controlled by OEM-supplied AML code (for more
information, see ACPI Software Programming Model ), which can be written to support a wide variety of hardware.
Also, ACPI provides specialized control methods that provide capabilities for specialized devices. For example, the
Notify command can be used to notify OSPM from a generic hardware event handler (control method) that a docking
or thermal event has taken place. A good understanding of this section and ACPI Software Programming Model of
4.7. ACPI Hardware Features
61
