Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
3.11.1 Hardware-reduced ACPI
ACPI offers an alternative platform interface model that removes ACPI hardware requirements for platforms that do not
implement the PC Architecture. In the Hardware-reduced ACPI model, the Fixed hardware interface requirements of
Chapter 4 are removed, and Generic hardware interfaces are used instead. This provides the level of flexibility needed
to innovate and differentiate in low-power hardware designs while enabling support by multiple Operating Systems.
Hardware-reduced ACPI has the following requirements:
• UEFI firmware interface for boot (Legacy BIOS is not supported).
• Boot in ACPI mode only (ACPI Enable, ACPI Disable, SMI_CMD and Legacy mode are not supported)
• No hardware resource sharing between OSPM and other asynchronous operating environments, such as UEFI
Runtime Services or System Management Mode. (The Global Lock is not supported)
• No dependence on OS-support for maintaining cache coherency across processor sleep states (Bus Master Reload
and Arbiter Disable are not supported)
• GPE block devices are not supported
Systems that do not meet the above requirements must implement the ACPI Fixed Hardware interface.
3.11.1.1 Interrupt-based Wake Events
On HW-reduced ACPI platforms, wakeup is an attribute of connected interrupts. Interrupts that are designed to wake
the processor or the entire platform are defined as wake-capable. Wake-capable interrupts, when enabled by OSPM,
wake the system when they assert.
3.11.2 Low-Power Idle
Platform architectures may support hardware power management models other than the traditional ACPI Sleep/Resume
model. These are typically implemented in proprietary hardware and are capable of delivering low-latency, connected
idle while saving as much energy as ACPI Sleep states. To support the diversity of hardware implementations, ACPI
provides a mechanism for the platform to indicate to OSPM that such capability is available.
3.11.2.1 Low Power S0 Idle Capable Flag
This flag in the FADT informs OSPM whether a platform has advanced idle power capabilities such that S0 idle achieves
savings similar to or better than those typically achieved in S3. With this flag, OSPM can keep the system in S0 idle
for its low-latency response and its connectedness rather than transitioning to a system sleep state which has neither.
The flag enables support for a diversity of platform implementations: traditional Sleep/Resume systems, systems with
advanced idle power, systems that support neither, and systems that can support both, depending on the capabilities of
the installed OS.
3.11. Flexible Platform Architecture Support
49
