CHAPTER
FIVE
ACPI SOFTWARE PROGRAMMING MODEL
ACPI defines a hardware register interface that an ACPI-compatible OS uses to control core power management features
of a machine, as described in ACPI Hardware Specification ACPI also provides an abstract interface for controlling
the power management and configuration of an ACPI system. Finally, ACPI defines an interface between an ACPI-
compatible OS and the platform runtime firmware.
To give hardware vendors flexibility in choosing their implementation, ACPI uses tables to describe system information,
features, and methods for controlling those features. These tables list devices on the system board or devices that
cannot be detected or power managed using some other hardware standard, plus their capabilities as described in ACPI
Concepts They also list system capabilities such as the sleeping power states supported, a description of the power
planes and clock sources available in the system, batteries, system indicator lights, and so on. This enables OSPM to
control system devices without needing to know how the system controls are implemented.
Topics covered in this section are:
• The ACPI system description table architecture is defined, and the role of OEM-provided definition blocks in
that architecture is discussed.
• The concept of the ACPI Namespace is discussed.
5.1 Overview of the System Description Table Architecture
The Root System Description Pointer (RSDP) structure is located in the system’s memory address space and is setup
by the platform firmware. This structure contains the address of the Extended System Description Table (XSDT), which
references other description tables that provide data to OSPM, supplying it with knowledge of the base system’s im-
plementation and configuration (see Root System Description Pointer and Table ).
All system description tables start with identical headers. The primary purpose of the system description tables is to
define for OSPM various industry-standard implementation details. Such definitions enable various portions of these
implementations to be flexible in hardware requirements and design, yet still provide OSPM with the knowledge it
needs to control hardware directly.
The Extended System Description Table (XSDT) points to other tables in memory. Always the first table, it points to the
Fixed ACPI Description Table (FADT). The data within this table includes various fixed-length entries that describe
the fixed ACPI features of the hardware. The FADT table always refers to the Differentiated System Description Table
(DSDT), which contains information and descriptions for various system features. The relationship between these tables
is shown in Description Table Structures .
OSPM finds the RSDP structure as described in Finding the RSDP on IA-PC Systems (“Finding the RSDP on IA-PC
Systems”) or Finding the RSDP on UEFI Enabled Systems (“Finding the RSDP on UEFI Enabled Systems”).
When OSPM locates the structure, it looks at the physical address for the Root System Description Table or the Extended
System Description Table. The Root System Description Table starts with the signature “RSDT”, while the Extended
System Description Table starts with the signature “XSDT”. These tables contain one or more physical pointers to other
95
