Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 6.12 – continued from previous page
VSEC/DVSEC ID
Integer
If Configuration Space Location is 3 (Vendor-Specific Extended
Capability Structure), this field indicates the vendor-defined ID number
(VSEC ID) of the Vendor-Specific Extended Capability Structure to
which the PCI Express Register Descriptor applies.
If Configuration Space Location is 4 (Designated Vendor-Specific
Extended Capability Structure), this field indicates the DVSEC ID of the
Designated Vendor-Specific Extended Capability Structure to which the
PCI Express Register Descriptor applies.
This field only applies if Configuration Space Location is 3
(Vendor-Specific Extended Capability Structure) or 4 (Designated
Vendor-Specific Extended Capability Structure).
VSEC/DVSEC Rev
Integer
This field contains information about the VSEC/DVSEC Rev and only
applies if Configuration Space Location is 3 (Vendor-Specific Extended
Capability Structure) or 4 (Designated Vendor-Specific Extended
Capability Structure).
Bit [4] indicates the applicability of the VSEC/DVSEC Rev in bits [3:0].
Defined values are:
- 0b: The PCI Express Register Descriptor applies to Vendor Specific
Extended Capabilities/Designated Vendor-Specific Capabilities with
VSEC/DVSEC Revs that are equal to the revision in bits [3:0].
- 1b: The PCI Express Register Descriptor applies to Vendor Specific
Extended Capabilities/Designated Vendor-Specific Capabilities with
VSEC/DVSEC Revs that are greater than or equal to the revision in bits
[3:0].
Bits [3:0] - If Configuration Space Location is 3 (Vendor-Specific
Extended Capability Structure), this field indicates the VSEC Rev of the
Vendor-Specific Extended Capability Structure. If Configuration Space
Location is 4 (Designated Vendor-Specific Extended Capability
Structure), this field indicates the DVSEC Revision of the Designated
Vendor-Specific Extended Capability Structure.
All other bits are reserved.
Match Register Offset
Integer
Byte offset of the PCIe configuration space register that is checked before
the write. This offset shall be dword aligned (i.e. bits [1:0] are 00b).
Match AND Mask
Integer
Bits 0 to 31 contain the AND mask to be used by the operating system
engine during the check.
Match Value
Integer
Bits 0 to 31 contain the value to be compared by Operating system engine
before the write.
Write Register Offset
Integer
Byte offset of the PCIe configuration space register to be modified. This
offset shall be dword aligned (i.e. bits [1:0] are 00b).
Write AND Mask
Integer
Bits 0 to 31 contain the AND mask to be used by the operating system
engine to modify the value to be written to the register indicated by Write
Register Offset.
Write OR Mask
Integer
Bits 0 to 31 contain the OR mask to be used by the operating system engine
to modify the value to be written to the register indicated by Write Register
Offset.
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
397
