Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
(continued from previous page)
Cacheable,
ReadWrite,
0xFFFFFFF,
0x10000000,
0x30000000,
0, , ,
)
})
}
}
The memory power state table (MPST) is a static structure created for all memory objects independent of hot plug status
(online or offline) during initialization. The OSPM will populate the MPST table during the boot. If hot-pluggable flag
is set for a given memory power node in MPST table, OSPM will not use this node till physical presence of memory is
communicated through ACPI notification mechanism.
The association between memory device object (e.g. MEM0) to the appropriate memory power node ID in the MPST
table is determined by comparing the address range specified using _CRS method and address ranges configured in the
MPST table entries. This association needs to be identified by OSPM as part of ACPI memory hot plug implementation.
When memory device is hot added, as part of existing acpi driver for memory hot plug, OSPM will scan device object
for _CRS method and get the relevant address ranges for the given memory object, OSPM will determine the appropriate
memory power node ids based on the address ranges from _CRS and enable it for power management and memory
coalescing.
Similarly when memory is hot removed, the corresponding memory power nodes will be disabled.
5.2.22.11 OS Memory Allocation Considerations
OSes (non-virtualized OS or a hypervisor/VMM) may need to allocate non-migratable memory. It is recommended that
the OSes (if possible) allocate this memory from memory ranges corresponding to memory power nodes that indicate
they are not power manageable. This allows OS to optimize the power manageable memory power nodes for optimal
power savings.
OSes can assume that memory ranges that belong to memory power nodes that are power manageable (as indicated by
the flag) are interleaved in a manner that does no impact the ability of that range to enter power managed states. For
example, such memory is not cacheline interleaved.
Reference to memory in this document always refers to host physical memory. For virtualized environments, this
requires hypervisors to be responsible for memory power management. Hypervisors also have the ability to create
opportunities for memory power management by vacating appropriate host physical memory through remapping guest
physical memory.
OSes can assume that the memory ranges included in MPST always refer to memory store - either volatile or non-
volatile and never to MMIO or MMCFG ranges.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
206
