Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
18.5.1.1 Serialization Actions
This section identifies the Serialization Actions that comprise the Error Record Serialization interface, as shown in the
following table.
Table 18.18: Error Record Serialization Actions
Value
Name
Description
0x0
BEGIN_WRITE_OPERATION
Indicates to the platform that an error record write op-
eration is beginning. This allows the platform to set its
operational context.
0x1
BEGIN_READ_OPERATION
Indicates to the platform that an error record read op-
eration is beginning. This allows the platform to set its
operational context.
0x2
BEGIN_CLEAR_OPERATION
Indicates to the platform that an error record clear op-
eration is beginning. This allows the platform to set its
operation context.
0x3
END_OPERATION
Indicates to the platform that the current error record op-
eration has ended. This allows the platform to clear its
operational context.
0x4
SET_RECORD_OFFSET
Sets the offset from the base of the Error Log to transfer
an error record.
0x5
EXECUTE_OPERATION
Instructs the platform to carry out the current operation
based on the current operational context.
0x6
CHECK_BUSY_STATUS
Returns the state of the current operation.
Once
an operation has been executed through the EXE-
CUTE_OPERATION action, the platform is required
to return an indication that the operation is in progress
until the operation completes.
This allows the OS
to poll for completion by repeatedly executing the
CHECK_BUSY_STATUS action until the platform in-
dicates that the operation not busy.
0x7
GET_COMMAND_STATUS
Returns the status of the current operation. The platform
is expected to maintain a status code for each operation.
Bits [8:1] of the value returned from the Register Region
indicate the command status, which requires that the Bit
Offset of the GAS for the Register Region is set to 1. See
Command-Status-Definition for a list of valid command
status codes.
0x8
GET_RECORD_IDENTIFIER
Returns the record identifier of an existing error record
on the persistent store. The error record identifier is a
64-bit unsigned value as defined in the appendices of the
UEFI Specification. If the record store is empty, this ac-
tion must return 0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF.
0x9
SET_RECORD_IDENTIFIER
Sets the record identifier. The error record identifier is a
64-bit unsigned value as defined in the appendices of the
UEFI Specification.
0xA
GET_RECORD_COUNT
Retrieves the number of error records currently stored on
the platforms persistent store. The platform is expected
to maintain a count of the number of error records resi-
dent in its persistent store.
continues on next page
18.5. Error Serialization
867
