Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
• Closed. No file handle is open.
Table A-4: Audio Device Power Management Policy
Present
State
Next
State
Cause
D3
D0
Audio device moves from closed to open state or paused when the device receives the resume
command.
D0
D1
Audio device receives pause command. If device is D1 capable, this state is preferred. If
not, the device driver will preserve context, and the device will be set to D2.
D2/D1
D0
Audio device receives a resume command.
D0
D2
Audio device is closed. Audio inactivity timer started.
D2
D3
Audio inactivity timer expires.
D0
D3
Audio device is in background record mode and receives power-down command.
When an audio device is in the D0 state it will refuse system requests to transition to D3 state unless it is in background
record mode. When an audio device is paused (D1 or D2) and it receives a request to transition to the D3 state, it will
save the state of the audio device and transition to the D3 state.
Since multimedia applications often open and close audio files in rapid succession, it is recommended that an inactivity
timer be employed by the policy owner to prevent needless shutdowns (D3 transitions) of the audio hardware. For
example, frequent power cycling may damage audio devices powered by vacuum tubes.
A.4.3 Audio Device Wake Events
An audio device may be a wake device. For example, a USB microphone designed for security applications might use
the USB wake mechanism to signal an alarm condition.
A.4.4 Audio Device Minimum Power Capabilities
All audio devices must be capable of D0, D2 and D3 power states. If the device is capable of maintaining context while
in a low-power state it should advertise support for D1. Transitional latency for the D2 or D3 states must be less than
100 ms. There are no latency restrictions for D3 transitions, but the policy owner should advertise the amount of time
required.
A.5 COM Port Device Class
The requirements expressed in this section apply to Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitters (UARTs) such as
the common NS16550 buffered serial port and equivalents.
The two required states for any power-managed COM Port are full on (D0) and full off (D3). This in turn requires that
the COM port hardware be power-manageable by ACPI control methods for COM ports that are on system boards, or
by standard bus power management controls for COM ports that are on add-in cards (for example, PCI). Because of
this, ISA-based COM port add-in cards will not be able to meet this requirement, and therefore cannot be compliant
with this specification.
A.5. COM Port Device Class
1095
