Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.190: Processor Structure Flags
Field
Bit
Length
Bit Off-
set
Description
Physical package
1
0
Set to 1 if this node of the processor topology represents the
boundary of a physical package, whether socketed or surface
mounted. Set to 0 if this instance of the processor topology
does not represent the boundary of a physical package. Each
valid processor must belong to exactly one package. That is,
the leaf must itself be a physical package or have an ancestor
marked as a physical package.
ACPI Processor ID valid
1
1
For non-leaf entries in the processor topology, the ACPI Pro-
cessor ID entry can relate to a Processor container in the
namespace. The processor container will have a matching ID
value returned through the _UID method. As not every pro-
cessor hierarchy node structure in PPTT may have a matching
processor container, this flag indicates whether the ACPI pro-
cessor ID points to valid entry. Where a valid entry is possible
the ACPI Processor ID and _UID method are mandatory. For
leaf entries in PPTT that represent processors listed in MADT,
the ACPI Processor ID must always be provided and this flag
must be set to 1.
Processor is a Thread
1
2
For leaf entries: must be set to 1 if the processing element
representing this processor shares functional units with sibling
nodes. For non-leaf entries: must be set to 0.
Node is a Leaf
1
3
Must be set to 1 if node is a leaf in the processor hierarchy.
Else must be set to 0.
Identical Implementation
1
4
A value of 1 indicates that all children processors share an
identical implementation revision. This field should be ig-
nored on leaf nodes by the OSPM. Note: this implies an identi-
cal processor version and identical implementation reversion,
not just a matching architecture revision.
Reserved
27
5
Must be zero
ò Note
Threads sharing a core must be grouped under a unique Processor hierarchy node structure for each group of threads.
ò Note
Processors may be marked as disabled in the MADT. In this case, the corresponding processor hierarchy node struc-
tures in PPTT should be considered as disabled. Additionally, all processor hierarchy node structures representing
a group of processors with all child processors disabled should be considered as being disabled. All resources
attached to disabled processor hierarchy node structures in PPTT should also be considered disabled.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
269
