Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
A.6 Display Device Class
The requirements expressed in this section apply to all devices engaged in the display of program content, which
includes full screen display devices, display controllers, and graphics adapters. This class does not include video
capture devices unless they are children of the graphics adapter. This class does not include edge displays or hardware
indicators for device states.
While saving power from the display and adapter are primary goals of Display Device Class power management def-
initions, the definitions are also intended to ensure that the user perceives the system as “off” during system sleeping
states, as required above. When the system enters a lower power state, the screen must go black so the user knows the
system is idle. This is important because devices that cannot actually save power (standard televisions, for example)
can still support the user notice of system idle by going black.
A.6.1 Display Device Power State Definitions
Table A-7: CRT Monitors Power State Definitions
State
Status
Definition
D0
Required
This state is equivalent to the “On” state defined in the VESA DPMS specification (see
Related Documents) and is signaled to the display using the DPMS method. Display
is fully on Video image is active
D1
Optional
This state is equivalent to the “Standby” state defined in the VESA DPMS and is sig-
naled to the display using the DPMS method. Display is functional but may be conserv-
ing energy Video image is blank Latency to return to D0 must be less than 5 seconds
D2
Required
This state is equivalent to the “Suspend” state defined in the VESA DPMS specification
and is signaled to the display using the DPMS method. Display is functional and
conserving energy Video image is blank Latency to return to D0 is less than 10 seconds
D3
Required
This state is equivalent to the “Off” state defined in the VESA DPMS specification and
is signaled to the display using the DPMS method. Display is non-functional Video
image is blank
CRT Monitors are a special case in power management. On the one hand, they support a common defined method
(DPMS) for changing power states. On the other hand, that procedure and the CRT support is extremely slow and out
of keeping with other faster power control methods used by other forms of display. This definition should not preclude
the use of faster and more effective methods of transitioning the CRT if they are available and known to the controller.
DPMS is not recommended as solution for new display devices in the future.
Table A-8: Internal Flat Panel Displays Power State Definitions
A.6. Display Device Class
1097
