Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
9.2.2 _MSG (Message)
This control method sets the system’s message-waiting status indicator.
Arguments:(1)
Arg0 - An Integer containing the number of waiting messages
Return Value:
None
9.2.3 _BLT (Battery Level Threshold)
This optional control method is used by OSPM to indicate to the platform the user’s preference for various battery level
thresholds. This method allows platform battery indicators to be synchronized with OSPM provided battery notification
levels. Note that if _BLT is implemented on a multi-battery system, it is required that the power unit for all batteries
must be the same (see Section 10.2 for more details on battery levels.
Arguments:(3)
Arg0 - An Integer containing the preferred threshold for the battery warning level
Arg1 - An Integer containing the preferred threshold for the battery low level
Arg2 - An Integer containing the preferred threshold for the battery wake level
Return Value:
None
Additional Information
The battery warning level in the range 0x00000001 - 0x7FFFFFFF (in units of mWh or mAh, depending on the Power
Units value) is the user’s preference for battery warning. If the level specified is less than the design capacity of warning,
it may be ignored by the platform so that the platform can ensure a successful wake on low battery.
The battery low level in the range 0x00000001 - 0x7FFFFFFF (in units of mWh or mAh, depending on the Power Units
value) is the user’s preference for battery low. If this level is less than the design capacity of low, it may be ignored by
the platform.
The battery wake level in the range 0x00000001 - 0x7FFFFFFF (in units of mWh or mAh, depending on the Power
Units value) is the user’s preference for battery wake. If this level is less than the platform’s current wake on low battery
level, it may be ignored by the platform. If the platform does not support a configurable wake on low battery level, this
may be ignored by the platform.
9.3 Ambient Light Sensor Device
The following section illustrates the operation and definition of the control method-based Ambient Light Sensor (ALS)
device.
The ambient light sensor device can optionally support power management objects (e.g. _PS0, _PS3) to allow the OS
to manage the device’s power consumption.
The Plug and Play ID of an ACPI control method ambient light sensor device is ACPI0008.
9.3. Ambient Light Sensor Device
595
