Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
The figure above depicts an example system, which comprises a system level processor container, which in turn contains
two cluster processor containers, each of which contains two processors. The overall collection is called the processor
hierarchy and standard tree terminology is used to refer to different parts of it. For example, an individual processor
or container is called a node, the nodes which reside within a processor container are called children of that parent,
etc. This example is symmetric but that is not a requirement. For example, a system may contain a different number
of processors in different containers or an asymmetric hierarchy where one side of the topology tree is deeper than
another. Also note that while this example includes a single top level processor container encompassing all processors,
this is not a requirement. It is legal for a system to be described using a collection of trees. (See Note below)
ò Note
The processor hierarchy can be used to describe a number of different characteristics of system topology. The main
example is shared power states, see the Low Power Idle states in Lower Power Idle States for details.
8.4.2.1 Processor Container Device
This optional device is a container object that acts much like a bus node in a namespace. It may contain child objects that
are either processor devices or other processor containers. This allows representing hierarchical processor topologies.
Each processor container or processor in the hierarchy is herein referred to as a node. The processor container device
is declared using the hardware identifier (_HID) ACPI0010.
To aid support of operating systems which do not parse processor containers, a container can carry a Compatible ID
(_CID) of PNP0A05, which represents a generic container device (see Device Class-Specific Objects)
A processor container declaration must supply a _UID method returning an ID that is unique in the processor container
hierarchy. A processor container must contain either other processor containers or other processor devices declared
within its scope. In addition, a processor container may also contain the following methods in its scope:
Table 8.4: Processor Container Device Objects
Object
Description
_LPI
Declares local power states for the hierarchy node represented by the processor container
_RDI
Declares power resource dependencies that affect system level power states
_STA
Determines the status of a processor container. See Device Class-Specific Objects.
_LPI may be present under a processor device, and is described in _LPI (Low Power Idle States). RDI can only be
present under a singular top level processor container object, and is described below.
ACPI allows the definition of more than one root level processor container. In other words, it is possible to define
multiple top level containers. For example, in a NUMA system if there are no idle states or other objects that need to
be encapsulated at the system level, multiple NUMA-node level processor containers may be defined at the top level of
the hierarchy.
Processor Container Device objects are only valid for implementations conforming to ACPI 6.0 or higher. A platform
can ascertain whether an operating system supports parsing of processor container objects via the _OSC method (see
Platform-Wide OSPM Capabilities).
8.4. Declaring Processors
530
