Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 6.3: Additional Language ID Alias Strings
RFC String
Supported Alias String
zh-Hans
zh-chs
zh-Hant
zh-cht
UnicodeDescription is a Buffer containing a Unicode (UTF-16) string. This string contains the language-specific de-
scription of the device corresponding to the LanguageID. The Unicode() ASL macro can be used to create this Buffer.
Example:
Device (XYZ) {
Name (_ADR, 0x00020001)
Name ( \_MLS, Package(){(2){"en", Unicode("ACME super DVD controller")}})
}
6.1.8 _PLD (Physical Location of Device)
This optional object is a method that conveys to OSPM a general description of the physical location of a device’s
external connection point. The _PLD may be child object for any ACPI Namespace object the system wants to describe.
This information can be used by system software to describe to the user which specific connector or device input
mechanism may be used for a given task or may need user intervention for correct operation. The _PLD should only
be evaluated when its parent device is present as indicated by the device’s presence mechanism (i.e. _STA or other)
An externally exposed device connection point can reside on any surface of a system’s housing. The respective surfaces
of a system’s housing are identified by the “Panel” field (described below). The _PLD method returns data to describe
the location of where the device’s connection point resides and a Shape (described below) that may be rendered at that
position. One physical device may have several connection points. A _PLD describes the offset and rotation of a single
device connection point from an “origin” that resides in the lower left hand corner of its Panel.
All Panel references (Top, Bottom, Right, Left, etc.) are interpreted as though the user is facing the front of the system.
For handheld mobile devices, the front panel is the one holding the display screen, and its origin is in the lower-left
corner when the display is viewed in the Portrait orientation. For example, the Right Panel is the right side of the system
as viewed from the front.
All “origin” references for a Panel are interpreted as its lower left corner when the user is facing the respective Panel.
The Top Panel shall be viewed with the system is viewed resting on its Front Panel, and the Bottom Panel shall be viewed
with the system resting on its Back Panel. All other Panels shall be viewed with the system resting on its Bottom Panel.
See System Panel and Panel Origin Positions for more information.
The data bits also assume that if the system is capable of opening up like a laptop that the device may exist on the base
of the laptop system or on the lid. In the case of the latter, the “Lid” bit (described below) should be set indicating the
device connection point is on the lid. If the device is on the lid, the description describes the device’s connection point
location when the system is opened with the lid up. If the device connection point is not on the lid, then the description
describes the device’s connection point location when the system with the lid closed.
6.1. Device Identification Objects
366
