Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
8.4.3 Lower Power Idle States
ACPI 6.0 introduces Lower Power Idle states (LPI). This extends the specification to allow expression of idle states that,
like C-states, are selected by the OSPM when a processor goes idle, but which may affect more than one processor, and
may affect other system components. LPI extensions in the specification leverage the processor container device, and
in this way can express which parts of the system are affected by a given LPI state.
LPI states are defined via the following objects:
• _LPI objects define the states themselves, and may be declared inside a processor or a processor container device
• _RDI allows expressing constraints on LPI usage borne out of device usage
8.4.3.1 Hierarchical Idle States
Processor containers (Processor Container Device) can be used in conjunction with _LPI (_LPI (Low Power Idle
States)) to describe idle states in a hierarchical manner. Within the processor hierarchy, each node has low power states
that are specific to that node. ACPI refers to states that are specific to a node in the hierarchy as Local Power States.
For example in the system depicted in Power states for processor hierarchy, the local power states of CPU0 are clock
gate, retention and power down.
When the OS running on a given processor detects there is no more work to schedule on that processor, it needs to
select an idle state. The state may affect more than just that processor. A processor going idle could be the last one
in the system, or in a processor container, and therefore may select a power state what affects multiple processors. In
order to select such a state, the OS needs to choose a local power state for each affected level in the processor hierarchy.
Fig. 8.7: Power states for processor hierarchy
Consider a situation where Core 0 is the last active core depicted in the example system, Power states for processor
hierarchy. It may put the system into the lowest possible idle state. To do so, the OS chooses local state 3 (Power Down)
for Core0, local state 3 (Power Down) for Cluster0, and local state 1 (Power Down) for the system. However, most HW
8.4. Declaring Processors
531
