Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.10 – continued from previous page
FORCE_APIC_PHYSICAL_-
DESTINATION_MODE
1
19
A one indicates that all local xAPICs must be
configured for physical destination mode. If this
bit is set, interrupt delivery operation in logical
destination mode is undefined. On machines that
contain fewer than 8 local xAPICs or that do not
use the xAPIC architecture, this bit is ignored.
HW_REDUCED_ACPI *
1
20
A one indicates that the Hardware-Reduced ACPI
(section 4.1) is implemented, therefore software-
only alternatives are used for supported fixed-
features defined in chapter 4.
LOW_POWER_S0_IDLE_CAPABLE
1
21
A one informs OSPM that the platform is able
to achieve power savings in S0 similar to or bet-
ter than those typically achieved in S3. In effect,
when this bit is set it indicates that the system will
achieve no power benefit by making a sleep tran-
sition to S3.
PERSISTENT_CPU_CACHES
2
22
The following values describe whether cpu
caches and any other caches that are coherent
with them, are considered by the platform to be
persistent. The platform evaluates the
configuration present at system startup to
determine this value. System configuration
changes after system startup may invalidate this.
00b - Not reported by the platform. Software
should reference the NFIT Platform Capabilities
01b - Cpu caches and any other caches that are
coherent with them, are not persistent. Software
is responsible for flushing data from cpu caches
to make stores persistent. Supersedes NFIT
Platform Capabilities.
10b - Cpu caches and any other caches that are
coherent with them, are persistent. Supersedes
NFIT Platform Capabilities. When reporting
this state, the platform shall provide enough
stored energy for ALL of the following:
- Time to flush cpu caches and any other
caches that are coherent with them
- Time of all targets of those flushes to
complete flushing stored data
- If supporting hot plug, the worst case
CXL device topology that can be hot
plugged
11b - Reserved
Reserved
8
24
* The description of HW_REDUCED_ACPI provided here applies to ACPI specifications 5.0 and later.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
123
