CHAPTER
EIGHTEEN
ACPI PLATFORM ERROR INTERFACES (APEI)
This section describes the ACPI Platform Error Interfaces (APEI), which provide a means for a computer platform
to convey error information to OSPM. APEI extends existing hardware error reporting mechanisms and brings them
together as components of a coherent hardware error infrastructure. APEI takes advantage of the additional hardware
error information available in today’s hardware devices, and integrates much more closely with the system firmware.
As a result, APEI provides the following benefits:
• Allows for more extensive error data to be made available in a standard error record format for determining the
root cause of hardware errors.
• Is extensible, so that as hardware vendors add new and better hardware error reporting mechanisms to their
devices, APEI allows the platform and the OSPM to gracefully accommodate the new mechanisms.
This provides information to help system designers understand basic issues about hardware errors, the relationship
between the firmware and OSPM, and information about error handling and the APEI architecture components.
APEI consists of four separate tables:
• Error Record Serialization Table (ERST)
• Boot Error Record Table (BERT)
• Hardware Error Source Table (HEST)
• Error Injection Table (EINJ)
18.1 Hardware Errors and Error Sources
A hardware error is a recorded event related to a malfunction of a hardware component in a computer platform. The
hardware components contain error detection mechanisms that detect when a hardware error condition exists. Hardware
errors can be classified as either corrected errors or uncorrected errors as follows:
• A corrected error is a hardware error condition that has been corrected by the hardware or by the firmware by
the time the OSPM is notified about the existence of the error condition.
• An uncorrected error is a hardware error condition that cannot be corrected by the hardware or by the firmware.
Uncorrected errors are either fatal or non-fatal.
• A fatal hardware error is an uncorrected or uncontained error condition that is determined to be unrecoverable by
the hardware. When a fatal uncorrected error occurs, the system is restarted to prevent propagation of the error.
• A non-fatal hardware error is an uncorrected error condition from which OSPM can attempt recovery by trying
to correct the error. These are also referred to as correctable or recoverable errors.
Central to APEI is the concept of a hardware error source. A hardware error source is any hardware unit that alerts
OSPM to the presence of an error condition. Examples of hardware error sources include the following:
844
