Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
3.3 Device Power Management
This section describes ACPI-compatible device power management. The ACPI device power states are introduced, the
controls and information an ACPI-compatible OS needs to perform device power management are discussed, the wake
operation devices use to wake the computer from a sleeping state is described, and an example of ACPI-compatible
device management using a modem is given
3.3.1 Device Power Management Model
ACPI Device Power Management is based on an integrated model consisting of:
Distributed device power state policy
For each hardware device on the system, there is a Power Policy Owner in the Operating System that is responsible
for continuously determining the best power state for the device. The best device power state is the one that, at any
point in time, minimizes the consumption of power by the device consistent with the usage requirements of the
device by the system and its user. Policy is typically defined for a class of devices, and incorporates application
activity, user scenarios and other operating state as necessary. It is applied to all devices of a given class.
Layered device power state control
Once power state decisions are made for a device, they must be carried-out by device drivers. The model par-
titions the control functionality between the device, bus and platform layers. Device drivers at each layer per-
form control using mechanisms available at that level, coordinated by OSPM. In general, the ordering proceeds
from Device/Class level, to Bus level, to Platform level when a device is powering down, and the inverse when
powering-up.
For instance, a device-level driver has access, via the device programming interface, to settings and control
registers that invoke specific, sometimes proprietary, power control features in the device. The device driver uses
these controls as appropriate for the target ACPI-defined power state determined by the policy owner. Similarly,
classes of devices may have standardized power features, invoked in standardized ways that Class Drivers might
use when entering a target power state.
At the bus level, power management standards come into play to provide bus-specific controls that work for
every device connected to the bus, regardless of device class. PCI, for instance, defines fields in the device
Configuration Space for setting the device’s power state (D0-D3). Bus-level drivers utilize these standards to
perform control in addition to that applied by the device-specific or device class driver. Bus-specific mechanisms
also enable additional power savings in the system by enabling the bus infrastructure hardware itself to enter lower
power states, as defined in the bus standard.
Finally, for platform-level power state control, ACPI defines mechanisms (_PRx, _PSx, _ON, _OFF) for putting
a device into a given power state. The Operating System’s Power Management software (OSPM) utilizes these
mechanisms to execute the lowest-level, platform-specific control for a given device (such as turning power rails
and clocks off and on, resetting hardware, etc.).
Operating System coordination
Finally, ACPI defines information and behavior requirements that enable OSPM to inform the Power Policy
Owner about supported state and wake-up capabilities, and to coordinate the actions of the various levels of
device drivers in controlling power. OSPM, in this role, is responsible for ensuring that device power management
is coordinated with System Power Management such as entering sleep states (S1-S4) or Low-power Idle states
(LPI). Integrated with device power state policy and control, wake-up policy and control are also coordinated
by OSPM. Power Policy Owners, which decide when the device might be needed to wake the system, ensure
that only device power states that the device can wake from are selected when the platform enters a Sleep or LPI
state. Enabling of wake-up hardware is also performed at the device, bus and platform levels and coordinated by
OSPM. OSPM ensures further that the Sleep or LPI state selected for the system is compatible with the device
state and wake-up capabilities of all the devices currently enabled for wake.
3.3. Device Power Management
33
