Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5.2.9 Fixed ACPI Description Table (FADT)
The Fixed ACPI Description Table (FADT) defines various fixed hardware ACPI information vital to an ACPI-
compatible OS, such as the base address for the following hardware registers blocks:
PM1a_EVT_BLK,
PM1b_EVT_BLK, PM1a_CNT_BLK, PM1b_CNT_BLK, PM2_CNT_BLK, PM_TMR_BLK, GPE0_BLK, and
GPE1_BLK.
The FADT also has a pointer to the DSDT that contains the Differentiated Definition Block, which in turn provides
variable information to an ACPI-compatible OS concerning the base system design.
All fields in the FADT that provide hardware addresses provide processor-relative physical addresses.
ò Note
If the HW_REDUCED_ACPI flag in the table is set, OSPM will ignore fields related to the ACPI HW register
interface: Fields at offsets 46 through 108 and 148 through 232, as well as FADT Flag bits 1, 2, 3,7,8,13, 14, 16,
and 17).
ò Note
In all cases where the FADT contains a 32-bit field and a corresponding 64-bit field the 64-bit field should always
be preferred by the OSPM if the 64-bit field contains a non-zero value which can be used by the OSPM. In this
case, the 32-bit field must be ignored regardless of whether or not it is zero, and whether or not it is the same value
as the 64-bit field. The 32-bit field should only be used if the corresponding 64-bit field contains a zero value, or if
the 64-bit value can not be used by the OSPM subject to e.g. CPU addressing limitations.
Table 5.9: FADT Format
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Header
• Signature
4
0
‘FACP’. Signature for the Fixed ACPI Description Ta-
ble. (This signature predates ACPI 1.0, explaining the
mismatch with this table’s name.)
• Length
4
4
Length, in bytes, of the entire FADT.
FADT Major Version
1
8
6
Major Version of this FADT structure, in
“Major.Minor” form, where ‘Minor’ is the value in the
Minor Version Field (Byte offset 131 in this table)
It is the intention that everything contained in the ACPI
table would comply with what is contained in the ACPI
specification itself. The FADT Major and Minor
version follow in lock-step with the version of the ACPI
Specification. Conforming to a given ACPI
specification means that each and every ACPI-related
table conforms to the version number for that table that
is listed in that version of the specification.
continues on next page
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
111
