CHAPTER
SIXTEEN
WAKING AND SLEEPING
ACPI defines a mechanism to transition the system between the working state (G0) and a sleeping state (G1) or the
soft-off (G2) state. During transitions between the working and sleeping states, the context of the user’s operating
environment is maintained. ACPI defines the quality of the G1 sleeping state by defining the system attributes of four
types of ACPI sleeping states (S1, S2, S3, and S4). Each sleeping state is defined to allow implementations that can
tradeoff cost, power, and wake latencies. Additionally, ACPI defines the sleeping states such that an ACPI platform
can support multiple sleeping states, allowing the platform to transition into a particular sleeping state for a predefined
period of time and then transition to a lower power/higher wake latency sleeping state (transitioning through the G0
state) (See note below).
OSPM uses the RTC wakeup feature or the Time and Alarm Namespace
device to program in the time transition delay. Prior to sleeping, OSPM
will program the alarm to the closest (in time) wakeup event: either a
transition to a lower power sleeping state, or a calendar event (to run
some application).
ACPI defines a programming model that provides a mechanism for OSPM to initiate the entry into a sleeping or soft-off
state (S1-S5); this consists of a 3 bit field SLP_TYPx (See note below) that indicates the type of sleep state to enter,
and a single control bit SLP_EN to start the sleeping process. On HW-reduced ACPI systems, the register described
by the SLEEP_CONTROL_REG field in the FADT is used instead of the fixed SLP_TYPx and SLP_EN register bit
fields.
Notice that there can be two fixed PM1x_CNT registers, each pointing
to a different system I/O space region. Normally a register grouping
only allows a bit or bit field to reside in a single register group
instance (a or b); however, each platform can have two instances of the
SLP_TYP (one for each grouping register: a and b). The \_Sx control
method gives a package with two values: the first is the SLP_TYPa value
and the second is the SLP_TYPb value.
ò Note
Systems containing processors without a hardware mechanism to place the processor in a low-power state may
additionally require the execution of appropriate native instructions to place the processor in a low-power state
after OSPM sets the SLP_EN bit. The hardware may implement a number of low-power sleeping states and then
associate these states with the defined ACPI sleeping states (through the SLP_TYPx fields). The ACPI system
firmware creates a sleeping object associated with each supported sleeping state (unsupported sleeping states are
identified by the lack of the sleeping object). Each sleeping object contains two constant 3-bit values that OSPM will
program into the SLP_TYPa and SLP_TYPb fields (in fixed register space), or, on HW-reduced ACPI platforms, a
single 3-bit value that OSPM will write to the register specified by the FADT’s SLEEP_CONTROL_REG field.
823
