Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Encodings of implicit length objects either have fixed length encodings or allow for nested encodings that, at some
point, either result in an explicit or implicit fixed length.
The PkgLength is encoded as a series of 1 to 4 bytes in the stream with the most significant two bits of byte zero,
indicating how many following bytes are in the PkgLength encoding. The next two bits are only used in one-byte
encodings, which allows for one-byte encodings on a length up to 0x3F. Longer encodings, which do not use these two
bits, have a maximum length of the following: two-byte encodings of 0x0FFF, three-byte encodings of 0x0FFFFF, and
four-byte length encodings of 0x0FFFFFFFF.
It is fatal for a package length to not fall on a logical boundary. For example, if a package is contained in another
package, then by definition its length must be contained within the outer package, and similarly for a datum of implicit
length.
5.4.2 Definition Block Loading
At some point, the system software decides to “load” a Definition Block. Loading is accomplished when the system
makes a pass over the data and populates the ACPI namespace and initializes objects accordingly. The namespace for
which population occurs is either from the current namespace location, as defined by all nested packages or from the
root if the name is preceded with ‘'.
The first object present in a Definition Block must be a named control method. This is the Definition Block’s initial-
ization control.
Packages are objects that contain an ordered reference to one or more objects. A package can also be considered a
vertex of an array, and any object contained within a package can be another package. This permits multidimensional
arrays of fixed or dynamic depths and vertices.
Unnamed objects are used to populate the contents of named objects. Unnamed objects cannot be created in the “root.”
Unnamed objects can be used as arguments in control methods.
Control method execution may generate errors when creating objects. This can occur if a Method that creates named
objects blocks and is reentered while blocked. This will happen because all named objects have an absolute path. This
is true even if the object name specified is relative. For example, the following ASL code segments are functionally
identical.
(1)
Method (DEAD)
{
Scope (\_SB_.FOO)
{
Name (BAR,0x1234) // Run time definition
}
}
(2)
Scope (\_SB_)
{
Name (\_SB_. FOO.BAR,) // Load time definition
}
Notice that in the above example the execution of the DEAD method will always fail because the object
\_SB_.FOO.BAR is created at load time.
The term of “Definition Block level” is used to refer to the AML byte streams that are not contained in any control
method. Such AML byte streams can appear in the “root” scope or in the scopes created/opened by the “Device, Pow-
5.4. Definition Block Encoding
295
