Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.179 – continued from previous page
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Flags
2
8
Bit [0]: set to 1 to indicate that data in the Proximity
Domain for the Attached Initiator field is valid. Bit [1]:
Reserved. Previously defined as Memory Proximity Do-
main field is valid. Deprecated since ACPI 6.3. Bit [2]:
Reserved. Previously defined as Reservation Hint. Dep-
recated since ACPI 6.3. Bits [15:3] : Reserved.
Reserved
2
10
Proximity Domain for the At-
tached Initiator
4
12
This field is valid only if the memory controller responsi-
ble for satisfying the access to memory belonging to the
specified memory proximity domain is directly attached
to an initiator that belongs to a proximity domain. In that
case, this field contains the integer that represents the
proximity domain to which the initiator (Generic Initia-
tor or Processor) belongs. This number shall match the
corresponding entry in the SRAT table’s processor affin-
ity structure (e.g., Processor Local APIC/SAPIC Affinity
Structure, Processor Local x2APIC Affinity Structure,
GICC Affinity Structure) if the initiator is a processor,
or the Generic Initiator Affinity Structure if the initiator
is a generic initiator. Note: this field provides additional
information as to the initiator node that is closest (as in
directly attached) to the memory address ranges within
the specified memory proximity domain, and therefore
should provide the best performance.
Proximity Domain for the Mem-
ory
4
16
Integer that represents the memory proximity domain to
which this memory belongs.
Reserved
4
20
Reserved
8
24
Previously defined as the Start Address of the System
Physical Address Range. Deprecated since ACPI Speci-
fication 6.3.
Reserved
8
32
Previously defined as the Range Length of the region in
bytes. Deprecated since ACPI Specification 6.3.
5.2.29.4 System Locality Latency and Bandwidth Information Structure
This structure provides a matrix that describes the normalized memory read/write latency, the read/write bandwidth
between Initiator Proximity Domains (Processor or I/O) and Target Proximity Domains (Memory).
The Entry Base Unit for latency is in picoseconds. The Entry Base Unit for bandwidth is in megabytes per second
(MB/s). The Initiator to Target Proximity Domain matrix entry can have one of the following values:
• 1-0xFFFE: the corresponding latency or bandwidth information expressed in multiples of Entry Base Unit.
• 0xFFFF: the initiator and target domains are unreachable from each other.
The represented latency or bandwidth value is determined as follows:
• Represented latency = (Initiator to Target Proximity Domain matrix entry value * Entry Base Unit) picoseconds.
• Represented bandwidth = (Initiator to Target Proximity Domain matrix entry value * Entry Base Unit) MB/s.
The following examples show how to report latency and throughput values:
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
254
