Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
2. Initialize the cache controller to its initial boot size and configuration.
3. Enable the memory controller to accept memory accesses.
4. Jump to the waking vector.
16.1.3 S3 Sleeping State
The S3 state is defined as a low wake-latency sleep state. From the software viewpoint, this state is functionally the
same as the S2 state. The operational difference is that some Power Resources that may have been left ON in the S2
state may not be available to the S3 state. As such, some devices may be in a lower power state when the system is in
S3 state than when the system is in the S2 state. Similarly, some device wake events can function in S2 but not S3. An
example of an S3 sleeping state implementation follows.
16.1.3.1 Example: S3 Sleeping State Implementation
When the SLP_TYPx register(s) are programmed to the S3 value (found in the \_S3 object) and the SLP_EN bit is set,
or the HW-reduced ACPI Sleep Type value for S3 and the SLP_EN bit are written to the Sleep Control Register, the
hardware will implement an S3 sleeping state transition by doing the following:
1. Placing the memory into a low-power auto-refresh or self-refresh state.
2. Devices that are maintaining memory isolating themselves from other devices in the system.
3. Removing power from the system. At this point, only devices supporting memory are powered (possibly partially
powered). The only clock running in the system is the RTC clock.
From S3 Sleeping State, the wake event repowers the system and resets most devices (depending on the implementation).
Execution control starts from the CPU’s boot vector. The platform boot firmware is required to:
1. Program the initial boot configuration of the CPU (such as the MSR and MTRR registers).
2. Initialize the cache controller to its initial boot size and configuration.
3. Enable the memory controller to accept memory accesses.
4. Jump to the waking vector.
Notice that if the configuration of cache memory controller is lost while the system is sleeping, the platform boot
firmware is required to reconfigure it to either the pre-sleeping state or the initial boot state configuration. The platform
boot firmware can store the configuration of the cache memory controller into the reserved memory space, where it can
then retrieve the values after waking. OSPM will call the _PTS method once per session (prior to sleeping).
The platform boot firmware is also responsible for restoring the memory controller’s configuration. If this configuration
data is destroyed during the S3 sleeping state, then the platform boot firmware needs to store the pre-sleeping state or
initial boot state configuration in a non-volatile memory area (as with RTC CMOS RAM) to enable it to restore the
values during the waking process.
When OSPM re-enumerates buses coming out of the S3 sleeping state, it will discover any devices that have been
inserted or removed, and configure devices as they are turned on.
16.1. Sleeping States
828
