Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 6.13 – continued from previous page
12
Diverse CPPC Highest Opti-
mization Support
This bit is set if OSPM can process processor device notifications
for changes in CPPC Highest Performance. It also indicates support
for optimizing for performance domains with diverse Highest
Performance capabilities.
Potential OS optimizations for diverse CPPC highest performance
include but are not limited to placement of work on specific logical
processors yielding a performance or power benefit.
Note: These optimizations are independent of the platform’s
existing ability to expose diverse Highest Performance to OSPM as
well as OSPM support for the MADT GICC’s Processor Power
Efficiency Class.
13
Interrupt ResourceSource sup-
port
This bit is set if OSPM supports the usage of the ResourceSource in
the extended interrupt descriptor. As part of the handshake provided
through _OSC, the platform will indicate to the OS whether or not
it supports usage of ResourceSource. If not set, the OS may choose
to ignore the ResourceSource parameter in the extended interrupt
descriptor.
14
Flexible
Address
Space
for
CPPC Registers
This bit is set if OSPM supports any CPPC register being located
in PCC, SystemMemory, SystemIO, or Functional Fixed Hardware
address spaces. If not set, per-register restrictions described in ACPI
Specification 6.1 apply.
15
GHES_ASSIST Support
This bit is set if OSPM supports the GHES_ASSIST Flag in HEST
Error Structures. See Section 18
16
Multi PCC channel support for
CPPC
The OSPM sets this bit when it supports multiple PCC channels for
the CPPC protocol.
17
Generic Initiator Support
This bit is set if OSPM supports the Generic Initiator Affinity Struc-
ture in SRAT.
18
Native USB4 Support
The OS sets this bit to indicate support for an OSPM-native USB4
Connection Manager, which handles USB4 connection events and
link management.
19
Battery Charge Limiting Sup-
port
The OS sets this bit to indicate support for Battery Charge Limit-
ing. This bit promises that the platform will advertise “true” state of
charge to the OSPM at all times.
20
PCI BAR Target GAS Support
The OS sets this bit to indicate support for the PCI BAR Target GAS
structure, as described in Table 5.2.
21
Platform Runtime Mechanism
Support
The OS sets this bit to indicate support for the Platform Runtime
Mechanism (PRM). See Links to ACPI-Related Documents (https:
//uefi.org/acpi) under the heading “Platform Runtime Mechanism
Table”.
22
Functional Fixed Hardware
The OS sets this bit to indicate support for the usage of Functional
Fixed Hardware (FFixedHW) Operation Regions.
23
Dynamic GPE Cap
The OS sets this bit to indicate conformity to the ‘Dynamic GPE
Cap’ logic described in Section 7.3.13 for GPE Processing.
24
Honor ResourceUsage
This bit is set if OSPM honours the ResourceUsage argument in
all device resource descriptors, properly differentiating between re-
sources consumed by a device and resources produced for its chil-
dren. If this bit is not set, OSPM ignores the ResourceUsage argu-
ment and employs device-specific behaviour.
continues on next page
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
404
