Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Further, the issuance and processing rules for notification of changes in the Capabilities Buffer is device specific. As
such, the allowable behavior is governed by device specifications either in ACPI-Defined Devices and Device-Specific
Objects , for ACPI-define devices, or other OEM, IHV, or device governing body’s’ device specifications.
It is permitted for _OSC to return all bits in the Capabilities Buffer cleared. An example of this is when significant
time is required to disable platform-based feature support. The platform may then later issue a Notify to tell OSPM
to re-evaluate _OSC to take over native control. This behavior is also device specific but may also rely on specific OS
capability.
In general, platforms should support both OSPM taking and relinquishing control of specific feature support via multiple
invocations of _OSC but the required behavior may vary on a per device basis.
Since platform context is lost when the platform enters the S4 sleeping state, OSPM must re-evaluate _OSC upon wake
from S4 to restore the previous platform state. This requirement will vary depending on the device specific _OSC
functionality.
6.2.12.1 Rules for Evaluating _OSC
This section defines when and how the OS must evaluate _OSC, as well as restrictions on firmware implementation.
6.2.12.1.1 Query Flag
If the Query Support Flag (Capabilities DWORD 1, bit 0 ) is set by the OS when evaluating _OSC, no hardware
settings are permitted to be changed by firmware in the context of the _OSC call. It is strongly recommended that the
OS evaluate _OSC with the Query Support Flag set until _OSC returns the Capabilities Masked bit clear, to negotiate
the set of features to be granted to the OS for native support; a platform may require a specific combination of features
to be supported natively by an OS before granting native control of a given feature. After negotiation with the query
flag set, the OS should evaluate without it so that any negotiated values can be made effective to hardware.
6.2.12.1.2 Evaluation Conditions
The OS must evaluate _OSC under the following conditions:
During initialization of any driver that provides native support for features described in the section above. These features
may be supported by one or many drivers, but should only be evaluated by the main bus driver for that hierarchy.
Secondary drivers must coordinate with the bus driver to install support for these features. Drivers may not relinquish
control of features previously obtained (i.e., bits set in Capabilities DWORD3 after the negotiation process must be set
on all subsequent negotiation attempts.)
When a Notify(<device>, 8) is delivered to the PCI Host Bridge device.
Upon resume from S4. Platform firmware will handle context restoration when resuming from S1-S3.
6.2.12.1.3 Sequence of _OSC Calls
The following rules govern sequences of calls to _OSC that are issued to the same host bridge and occur within the
same boot.
• The OS is permitted to evaluate _OSC an arbitrary number of times.
• If the OS declares support of a feature in the Support Field in one call to _OSC, then it must preserve the set
state of that bit (declaring support for that feature) in all subsequent calls.
• If the OS is granted control of a feature in the Control Field in one call to _OSC, then it must preserve the set
state of that bit (requesting that feature) in all subsequent calls.
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
402
