Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
1. A deeper (lower power) local state than the requested one.
2. A local power state with a higher wake up latency than the requested one.
3. A local power state with power resource dependencies that the requested state does not have.
The platform looks across the votes for each hierarchy node from all underlying cores and chooses the deepest local state
which satisfies all of the constraints associated with all of the votes. Normally, this just means taking the shallowest
state that one of the cores voted for, since shallower states have lower wakeup latencies, lower minimum residencies,
and fewer power resource dependencies. However, this may not always be the true, as state depth and latencies do not
always increase together. For the sake of efficiency, the platform should generally not enter a power state with a higher
minimum residency than the requested one. However, this is not a strict functional requirement. The platform may
resolve to a state with higher minimum residency if it believes that is the most efficient choice based on the specific
states and circumstances.
Using the above example in Power states for processor hierarchy, a simple flow would look like this:
• Core0 goes idle - OS requests Core0 Power Down, Cluster0 Retention
• Platform receives Core0 requests - place Core0 in the Power Down state
• Core1 goes idle - OS requests Core1 Power Down, Cluster0 Power Down
• Platform receives Core1 request - puts Core1 in the Power Down state, and takes shallowest vote for Cluster0,
thus placing it into the Retention state
If the OSPM wanted to request power states beyond the cluster level, then Core0 and Core1 would both vote for an idle
state at System level too, and the platform would resolve the final state selection across their votes and votes from any
other processors under the System hierarchy via the method described above.
As mentioned above, certain platforms support a mechanism called autopromotion where the votes for higher level
states may be implicit rather than explicit. In this scheme, the platform provides OSPM with commands to request idle
states at a lower level of the processor hierarchy which automatically imply a specific idle state request at the respective
higher level of the hierarchy. There is no command to explicitly request entry into the higher level state, only the implicit
request based on the lower level state.
For example, if the platform illustrated in Power states for processor hierarchy uses autopromotion for the Cluster0
Clock Gated state, neither Core0 nor Core1 can explicitly request it. However, a core level Clock Gate request from
either Core0 or Core1 would imply a Cluster0 Clock Gate request. Therefore, if both cores request core clock gating
(or deeper), Cluster0 will be clock gated automatically by the platform. Additional details on how autopromotion is
supported by ACPI can be found in Entry Method and Composition.
8.4.3.2.2 OS Initiated
In the OS Initiated coordination scheme, OSPM only requests an idle state for a particular hierarchy node when the
last underlying processor goes to sleep. Obviously a processor always selects an idle state for itself, but idle states for
higher level hierarchy nodes like clusters are only selected when the last processor in the cluster goes idle. The platform
only considers the most recent request for a particular node when deciding on its idle state.
The main motivations for OS Initiated coordination are:
1. Avoid overhead of OSPM evaluating selection for higher level idle states which will not be used since other
processors are still awake
2. Allow OSPM to make higher level idle state selections based on the latest information by taking only the most
recent request for a particular node and ignoring requests from processors which went to sleep in the past (and
may have been based on information which is now stale)
Using the above example in a simple flow would look like the following.
8.4. Declaring Processors
533
