Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
6.2.9 _HPX (Hot Plug Parameter Extensions)
This optional object provides platform-specific information to the OSPM PCI driver component responsible for con-
figuring PCI, PCI-X, or PCI Express Functions. The information conveyed applies to the entire hierarchy downward
from the scope containing the _HPX object. If another _HPX object is encountered downstream, the settings conveyed
by the lower-level object apply to that scope downward.
OSPM uses the information returned by _HPX to determine how to configure PCI Functions that are hot-plugged into
the system, to configure Functions not configured by the platform firmware during initial system boot, and to configure
Functions any time they lose configuration space settings (e.g. OSPM issues a Secondary Bus Reset/Function Level
Reset or Downstream Port Containment is triggered). The _HPX object is placed within the scope of a PCI-compatible
bus where this behavior is desired, such as a bus with hot-plug slots. It returns a single package that contains one
or more sub-packages, each containing a single Setting Record. Each such Setting Record contains a Setting Type
(INTEGER), a Revision number (INTEGER) and type/revision specific contents.
The format of data returned by the _HPX object is extensible. The Setting Type and Revision number determine the
format of the Setting Record. OSPM ignores Setting Records of types that it does not understand. A Setting Record
with higher Revision number supersedes that with lower revision number, however, the _HPX method can return both
together, OSPM shall use the one with highest revision number that it understands. Type 3 records may have multiple
records with the same revision or different revision (refer to the Revision field in PCI Express Descriptor Setting Record
Content. Out of all the Type 3 records, the OSPM shall determine the highest revision number that it understands and
use all Type 3 records with that revision.
_HPX may return multiple types or Record Settings (each setting in a single sub-package.) OSPM is responsible
for detecting the type of Function and for applying the appropriate settings. OSPM is also responsible for detecting
the device / port type of the PCI Express Function and applying the appropriate settings provided. For example, the
Secondary Uncorrectable Error Severity and Secondary Uncorrectable Error Mask settings of Type 2 record are only
applicable to PCI Express to PCI-X/PCI Bridge whose device / port type is 1000b. Similarly, AER settings are only
applicable to hot plug PCI Express devices that support the optional AER capability.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A variable-length Package containing a list of Packages, each containing a single PCI, PCI-X, PCI Ex-
press, or PCI Express Descriptor Record Setting as described below
The _HPX object supersedes the _HPP object. If the _HPP and _HPX objects exist within a device’s scope,
OSPM will only evaluate the _HPX object.
ò Note
OSPM may override the settings provided by the _HPX object’s Type2 record (PCI Express Settings) or Type3
record (PCI Express Descriptor Settings) when OSPM has assumed native control of the corresponding feature.
For example, if OSPM has assumed ownership of AER (via _OSC), OSPM may override AER related settings
returned by _HPX.
ò Note
Since error status registers do not drive error signaling, OSPM is not required to clear error status registers as part
of _HPX handling.
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
387
