Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 3.1: Global System Power States and Transitions
The net effect of this is that the entire machine is functional in the Working state. Various Working sub-states differ
in speed of computation, power used, heat produced, and noise produced. Tuning within the Working state is largely
about trade-offs among speed, power, heat, and noise.
When the computer is idle or the user has pressed the power button, the OS will put the computer into one of the sleeping
(Sx) states. No user-visible computation occurs in a sleeping state. The sleeping sub-states differ in what events can
arouse the system to a Working state, and how long this takes. When the machine must awaken to all possible events
or do so very quickly, it can enter only the sub-states that achieve a partial reduction of system power consumption.
However, if the only event of interest is a user pushing on a switch and a latency of minutes is allowed, the OS could
save all system context into an NVS file and transition the hardware into the S4 sleeping state. In this state, the machine
draws almost zero power and retains system context for an arbitrary period of time (years or decades if needed).
The other states are used less often. Computers that support legacy BIOS power management interfaces boot in the
Legacy state and transition to the Working state when an ACPI OS loads. A system without legacy support (for example,
a RISC system) transitions directly from the Mechanical Off state to the Working state. Users typically put computers
into the Mechanical Off state by flipping the computer’s mechanical switch or by unplugging the computer.
3.2.1 Power Button
In legacy systems, the power button typically either forces the machine into Soft Off or Mechanical Off or, on a laptop,
forces it to some sleeping state. No allowance is made for user policy (such as the user wants the machine to “come on”
in less than 1 second with all context as it was when the user turned the machine “off”), system alert functions (such as
the system being used as an answering machine or fax machine), or application function (such as saving a user file).
In an OSPM system, there are two switches. One is to transition the system to the Mechanical Off state. A mechanism
to stop current flow is required for legal reasons in some jurisdictions (for example, in some European countries). The
other is the “main” power button. This is in some obvious place (for example, beside the keyboard on a laptop). Unlike
legacy on/off buttons, all it does is send a request to the system. What the system does with this request depends on
policy issues derived from user preferences, user function requests, and application data.
3.2. Power States
31
