Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
14.6 Platform Notification
The following sections describe platform notifications on subspace types 0-2 and type 4.
14.6.1 Platform Notification for Subspace Types 0, 1, and 2
The doorbell protocol is a synchronous notification from OSPM to the platform to process a command. If the platform
wants to notify OSPM of an event asynchronously, it may set the Platform Interrupt and Platform Notification status bits
and issue a Platform Interrupt. OSPM will service the Interrupt, clear the Platform Interrupt and Platform Notification
bits, and service the platform notification. The meaning of the platform notification and the steps required to service it
are defined by the individual components utilizing the PCC interface.
The platform must wait until OSPM has issued a consumer defined command that serves to notify the platform that
OSPM is ready to service Platform Notifications. The command is subspace specific and may not be supported by all
subspaces. Platform Notifications must be used in conjunction with an interrupt. Polling for Platform Notifications is
not supported.
The platform may not modify any portion of the shared memory region other than the status field when issuing a
platform notification.
Platform notifications for subspace types 0, 1, and 2 will be deprecated in a future revision of the specification. Im-
plementers requiring the platform be able to send asynchronous notifications to OSPM should use Initiator/Responder
subspaces.
Note: All accesses to the Status Field must be made using interlocked operations, by both entities sharing the subspace.
This requirement will be removed for subspace types 0 to 2 as part of deprecation of platform async notifications in a
future spec revision.
14.6.2 Platform Notification for Responder PCC subspaces (type 4)
Initiator subspaces (Type 3) only allow synchronous OSPM-initiated communication with the platform, and do not use
the platform notification mechanism provided for subspaces of types 0 to 2. Instead, an Initiator subspace can be paired
with a Responder subspace, type 4, which is specifically provided for platform-initiated communications with OSPM.
Like type 3 Initiator subspaces, type 4 Responder subspaces include a single Command Complete bit. OSPM must set
the Command Complete bit when it is ready to receive notifications from the platform.
The flow of communications for a notification is illustrated in Fig. 14.2. As can be seen the communication flow is
very similar to that of an Initiator subspace, shown in Fig. 14.1, except that the roles of the platform and the OSPM are
reversed.
The steps are as follows:
1. First, the platform checks that there is no notification command pending completion on the subspace. This is
done by checking that the Command Complete bit is set. If Command Complete is set the subspace is free for
use, and the shared memory associated with the subspace is exclusively owned by the platform.
2. The platform places a notification command into the shared memory in the subspace, updating the flags, length,
command, and payload fields (see Table 14.12). The platform can request that the OSPM rings the doorbell once
it has completed processing the notification command by setting the Notify on completion bit in the flags (see
Table 14.13).
3. The platform then clears the command complete bit. This transfers ownership of the shared memory to the
OSPM.
4. The platform raises the platform interrupt indicated by the GSI of the Responder subspace.
When the OSPM receives the interrupt, it executes the following steps:
14.6. Platform Notification
812
