Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 7.3 – continued from previous page
Object
Description
_PR1
Object that evaluates to the device’s power requirements in the D1 device state. The only devices
that supply this level are those that can achieve the defined D1 device state according to the related
device class.
_PR2
Object that evaluates to the device’s power requirements in the D2 device state. The only devices
that supply this level are those that can achieve the defined D2 device state according to the related
device class.
_PR3
Object that evaluates to the device’s power requirements in the D3hot device state.
_PRW
Object that evaluates to the device’s power requirements in order to wake the system from a system
sleeping state.
_PSW
Control method that enables or disables the device’s wake function.
_IRC
Object that signifies the device has a significant inrush current draw.
_S1D
Shallowest D-state supported by the device in the S1 state
_S2D
Shallowest D-state supported by the device in the S2 state
_S3D
Shallowest D-state supported by the device in the S3 state
_S4D
Shallowest D-state supported by the device in the S4 state
_S0W
Deepest D-state supported by the device in the S0 state which can wake the device
_S1W
Deepest D-state supported by the device in the S1 state which can wake the system.
_S2W
Deepest D-state supported by the device in the S2 state which can wake the system.
_S3W
Deepest D-state supported by the device in the S3 state which can wake the system.
_S4W
Deepest D-state supported by the device in the S4 state which can wake the system.
_RST
Control method that executes a function level reset of the device.
_PRR
Object that evaluates to the device’s platform level reset requirements.
_DSC
Object that evaluates to the device’s deepest power state for configuration.
7.3.1 _DSW (Device Sleep Wake)
In addition to _PRW, this control method can be used to enable or disable the device’s ability to wake a sleeping system.
This control method can only access Operation Regions that are either always available while in a system working state
or that are available when the Power Resources referenced by the _PRW object are all ON. For example, do not put
a power plane control for a bus controller within configuration space located behind the bus. The method should
enable the device only for the last system state/device state combination passed in by OSPM. OSPM will only pass in
combinations allowed by the _SxD and _SxW objects.
The arguments provided to _DSW indicate the eventual Device State the device will be transitioned to and the eventual
system state that the system will be transitioned to. The target system state is allowed to be the system working state
(S0). The _DSW method will be run before the device is placed in the designated state and also before the system is
placed in the designated system state.
Compatibility Note: The _PSW method was deprecated in ACPI 3.0. The _DSW method should be used instead.
OSPM will only use the _PSW method if OSPM does not support _DSW or if the _DSW method is not present.
Arguments (3):
• Arg0 - An Integer that contains the device wake capability control
– 0 - Disable the device’s wake capabilities
– 1 - Enable the device’s wake capabilities
• Arg1 - An Integer that contains the target system state (0-4)
• Arg2 - An Integer that contains the target device state
– 0 - The device will remain in state D0
7.3. Device Power Management Objects
494
