Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
4.8.3.3 Power Management Timer (PM_TMR)
Register Location: <PM_TMR_BLK> System I/O or Memory Space
Default Value: 00h
Attribute: Read-Only
Size: 32 bits
This optional read-only register returns the current value of the power management timer (PM timer) if it is implemented
on the platform. The FADT has a flag called TMR_VAL_EXT that an OEM sets to indicate a 32-bit PM timer or reset
to indicate a 24-bit PM timer. When the last bit of the timer toggles the TMR_STS bit is set. This register is accessed
as 32 bits.
This register contains optional features enabled or disabled within the FADT. If the FADT indicates that the feature is
not supported as a fixed hardware feature, then software treats these bits as ignored.
Table 4.14: PM Timer Bits
Bit
Name
Description
TMR_VAL
23:0
This read-only field returns the running count of the power manage-
ment timer. This is a 24-bit counter that runs off a 3.579545-MHz
clock and counts while in the S0 working system state. The starting
value of the timer is undefined, thus allowing the timer to be reset
(or not) by any transition to the S0 state from any other state. The
timer is reset (to any initial value), and then continues counting until
the system’s 14.31818 MHz clock is stopped upon entering its Sx
state. If the clock is restarted without a reset, then the counter will
continue counting from where it stopped.
E_TMR_VAL
31:24
This read-only field returns the upper eight bits of a 32-bit power
management timer. If the hardware supports a 32-bit timer, then this
field will return the upper eight bits; if the hardware supports a 24-bit
timer then this field returns all zeros.
4.8.3.4 PM2 Control (PM2_CNT)
Register Location: <PM2_CNT_BLK> System I/O, System Memory, or Functional
Fixed Hardware Space
Default Value: 00h
Attribute: Read/Write
Size: PM2_CNT_LEN
This register block is naturally aligned and accessed based on its length. For ACPI 1.0 this register is byte aligned and
accessed as a byte.
This register contains optional features enabled or disabled within the FADT. If the FADT indicates that the feature is
not supported as a fixed hardware feature, then software treats these bits as ignored.
4.8. ACPI Register Model
83
