Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.220 – continued from previous page
Name
Description
\_PR
ACPI 1.0 Processor Namespace. ACPI 1.0 requires all Processor objects to be defined
under this namespace. ACPI 2.0 and later allow Processor object definitions under the
\_SB namespace. Platforms may maintain the \_PR namespace for compatibility with
ACPI 1.0 operating systems, but it is otherwise deprecated. see the compatibility note
in Processor Local x2APIC Structure. An ACPI-compatible namespace may define
Processor objects in either the \_SB or \_PR scope but not both. For more information
about defining Processor objects, see Processor Configuration and Control.
\_SB
All Device/Bus Objects are defined under this namespace.
\_SI
System indicator objects are defined under this namespace. For more information
about defining system indicators, see \_SI System Indicators.
\_TZ
ACPI 1.0 Thermal Zone namespace. ACPI 1.0 requires all Thermal Zone objects to
be defined under this namespace. Thermal Zone object definitions may now be de-
fined under the \_SB namespace. ACPI-compatible systems may maintain the \_TZ
namespace for compatibility with ACPI 1.0 operating systems. An ACPI-compatible
namespace may define Thermal Zone objects in either the \_SB or \_TZ scope but
not both. For more information about defining Thermal Zone objects, see Thermal
Management.
5.3.2 Objects
All objects, except locals, have a global scope. Local data objects have a per-invocation scope and lifetime and are used
to process the current invocation from beginning to end.
The contents of objects vary greatly. Nevertheless, most objects refer to data variables of any supported data type, a
control method, or system software-provided functions.
Objects may contain a revision field. Successive ACPI specifications define object revisions so that they are backwards
compatible with OSPM implementations that support previous specifications / object revisions. New object fields are
added at the end of previous object definitions. OSPM interprets objects according to the revision number it supports
including all earlier revisions. As such, OSPM expects that an object’s length can be greater than or equal to the length
of the known object revision. When evaluating objects with revision numbers greater than that known by OSPM, OSPM
ignores internal object fields values that are beyond the defined object field range for the known revision.
5.4 Definition Block Encoding
This section specifies the encoding used in a Definition Block to define names (load time only), objects, and packages.
5.4.1 AML Encoding
The Definition Block is encoded as a stream from beginning to end. The lead byte in the stream comes from the
AML encoding tables shown in ACPI Source Language (ASL) Reference and signifies how to interpret some number
of following bytes, where each following byte can in turn signify how to interpret some number of following bytes. For
a full specification of the AML encoding, see ACPI Source Language (ASL) Reference
Within the stream there are two levels of data being defined. One is the packaging and object declarations (load time),
and the other is an object reference (package contents/run-time).
All encodings are such that the lead byte of an encoding signifies the type of declaration or reference being made. The
type either has an implicit or explicit length in the stream. All explicit length declarations take the form shown below,
where PkgLength is the length of the inclusive length of the data for the operation.
5.4. Definition Block Encoding
293
