Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
• Non-shared embedded controller. This will be the most common case where there is no need for the system
management handler to communicate with the embedded controller when the system transitions to ACPI mode.
OSPM processes all normal types of system management events, and the system management handler does not
need to take any actions.
• Integrated keyboard controller and embedded controller. This provides three host interfaces as described earlier
by including the standard keyboard controller in an existing component (chip set, I/O controller) and adding a
discrete, standard embedded controller with two interfaces for system management activities.
• Standard keyboard controller and embedded controller. This provides three host interfaces by providing a key-
board controller as a distinct component, and two host interfaces are provided in the embedded controller for
system management activities.
• Two embedded controllers. This provides up to four host interfaces by using two embedded controllers; one
controller for system management activities providing up to two host interfaces, and one controller for keyboard
controller functions providing up to two host interfaces.
• Embedded controller and no keyboard controller. Future platforms might provide keyboard functionality through
an entirely different mechanism, which would allow for two host interfaces in an embedded controller for system
management activities.
To handle the general embedded controller interface (as opposed to a dedicated interface) model, a method is available
to make the embedded controller a shareable resource between multiple tasks running under the operating system’s
control and the system management interrupt handler. This method, as described in this section, requires several
changes:
• Additional external hardware
• Embedded controller firmware changes
• System management interrupt handler firmware changes
• Operating software changes
Access to the shared embedded controller interface requires additional software to arbitrate between the operating
system’s use of the interface and the system management handler’s use of the interface. This is done using the Global
Lock as described in Section 6.5.7, but is not supported on HW-reduced ACPI platforms.
This interface sharing protocol also requires embedded controller firmware changes, in order to ensure that collisions
do not occur at the interface. A collision could occur if a byte is placed in the system output buffer and an interrupt is
then generated. There is a small window of time when the incorrect recipient could receive the data. This problem is
resolved by ensuring that the firmware in the embedded controller does not place any data in the output buffer until it
is requested by OSPM or the system management handler.
More detailed algorithms and descriptions are provided in the following sections.
12.2 Embedded Controller Register Descriptions
The embedded controller contains three registers at two address locations: EC_SC and EC_DATA. The EC_SC, or
Embedded Controller Status/Command register, acts as two registers: a status register for reads to this port and a com-
mand register for writes to this port. The EC_DATA (Embedded Controller Data register) acts as a port for transferring
data between the host CPU and the embedded controller.
12.2. Embedded Controller Register Descriptions
763
