Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
An attempt to access names in the parent of the root will result in the name not being found.
There are two types of namespace paths: an absolute namespace path (that is, one that starts with a ‘' prefix), and a
relative namespace path (that is, one that is relative to the current namespace). The namespace search rules discussed
above, only apply to single NameSeg paths, which is a relative namespace path. For those relative name paths that
contain multiple NameSegs or Parent Prefixes, ‘^’, the search rules do not apply. If the search rules do not apply to a
relative namespace path, the namespace object is looked up relative to the current namespace. For example:
ABCD
//search rules apply
^ABCD
//search rules do not apply
XYZ.ABCD
//search rules do not apply
\\XYZ.ABCD
//search rules do not apply
All name references use a 32-bit fixed-length name or use a Name Extension prefix to concatenate multiple 32-bit
fixed-length name components together. This is useful for referring to the name of an object, such as a control method,
that is not in the scope of the current namespace.
NamePaths are used primarily for two purposes:
• To reference an existing object. In this case, all NameSegs within the NamePath must already exist.
• To create a new object. For example:
Device (XYZ.ABCD) {...}
OperationRegion (\XYZ.ABCD, SystemMemory, 0, 0x200)
Each of these declarations is intended to create a new object with the name ABCD according the following rules:
• Object XYZ must already exist for the ABCD object to be created
• If XYZ does not exist, that will cause a fatal error
In general, it is only the final NameSeg that will be used as the name of the new object. If any other NameSeg along
the NamePath does not exist, it is a fatal error. In this sense, the NamePath is similar to a file pathname in a filesystem
consisting of some number of existing directories followed by a final filename.
The figure below shows a sample of the ACPI namespace after a Differentiated Definition Block has been loaded.
Care must be taken when accessing namespace objects using a relative single segment name because of the namespace
search rules. An attempt to access a relative object recurses toward the root until the object is found or the root is en-
countered. This can cause unintentional results. For example, using the namespace described in Figure 5.5, attempting
to access a _CRS named object from within the \_SB_.PCI0.IDE0 will have different results depending on if an abso-
lute or relative path name is used. If an absolute pathname is specified (_SB_.PCI0.IDE0._CRS) an error will result
since the object does not exist. Access using a single segment name (_CRS) will actually access the \_SB_.PCI0._CRS
object. Notice that the access will occur successfully with no errors.
5.3.1 Predefined Root Namespaces
The following namespaces are defined under the namespace root.
Table 5.220: Namespaces Defined Under the Namespace Root
Name
Description
\_GPE
General events in GPE register block.
continues on next page
5.3. ACPI Namespace
292
