Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
individual multi-threaded processors in the MADT before listing any of the second logical processors. This approach
should be used for all successive logical processors.
Failure of OSPM implementations and platform firmware to abide by these guidelines can result in both unpredictable
and non optimal platform operation.
5.2.12.2 Processor Local APIC Structure
When using the APIC interrupt model, each processor in the system is required to have a Processor Local APIC record
in the MADT, and a processor device object in the DSDT. OSPM does not expect the information provided in this
table to be updated if the processor information changes during the lifespan of an OS boot. While in the sleeping state,
processors are not allowed to be added, removed, nor can their APIC ID or Flags change. When a processor is not
present, the Processor Local APIC information is either not reported or flagged as disabled.
Table 5.22: Processor Local APIC Structure
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Type
1
0
0 Processor Local APIC structure
Length
1
1
8
ACPI Processor UID
1
2
The OS associates this Local APIC Structure with a proces-
sor object in the namespace when the _UID child object of the
processor’s device object (or the ProcessorId listed in the Pro-
cessor declaration operator) evaluates to a numeric value that
matches the numeric value in this field. Note that the use of
the Processor declaration operator is deprecated. See the de-
scription at the beginning of this section for more information.
APIC ID
1
3
The processor’s local APIC ID.
Flags
4
4
Local APIC flags. See the following table (Table 5.23) for a
description of this field.
Table 5.23: Local APIC Flags
Local APIC Flags
Bit
Length
Bit Off-
set
Description
Enabled
1
0
If this bit is set the processor is ready for use. If this bit is clear
and the Online Capable bit is set, system hardware supports
enabling this processor during OS runtime. If this bit is clear
and the Online Capable bit is also clear, this processor is un-
usable, and OSPM shall ignore the contents of the Processor
Local APIC Structure.
Online Capable
1
1
The information conveyed by this bit depends on the value of
the Enabled bit. If the Enabled bit is set, this bit is reserved and
must be zero. Otherwise, if this this bit is set, system hardware
supports enabling this processor during OS runtime.
Reserved
30
2
Must be zero.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
136
