Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
methods that allow ACPI to fill in the functions necessary to perform hotplug on PCI.
An additional aspect of ACPI is a runtime model that handles any ACPI interrupt events that occur during system
operation. ACPI continues to evaluate objects as necessary to handle these events. This interrupt-based runtime model
is discussed in greater detail in the Runtime model section below.
ACPI Initialization
The best way to understand how ACPI works is chronologically. The moment the user powers up the system, the system
firmware completes its setup, initialization, and self tests.
The system firmware then uses information obtained during firmware initialization to update the ACPI tables as neces-
sary with various platform configurations and power interface data, before passing control to the bootstrap loader. The
extended root system description table (XSDT) is the first table used by the ACPI subsystem and contains the addresses
of most of the other ACPI tables on the system. The XSDT points to the fixed ACPI description table (FADT) as well
as other major tables that the OS processes during initialization. After the OS initializes, the FADT directs the ACPI
subsystem to the differentiated system description table (DSDT), which is the beginning of the namespace because it
is the first table that contains a definition block.
The ACPI subsystem then processes the DSDT and begins building the namespace from the ACPI definition blocks.
The XSDT also points to the secondary system description tables (SSDTs) and adds them to the namespace. The ACPI
data tables give the OS raw data about the system hardware.
After the OS has built the namespace from the ACPI tables, it begins traversing the namespace and loading device
drivers for all the _HID devices it encounters in the namespace. See figure i-4.
In the ACPI Initialization diagram above, system firmware updates the ACPI tables as necessary with information only
available at runtime, before handing off control to the bootstrap loader. The XSDT is the first table used by the OS’s
ACPI subsystem, and contains addresses of most other ACPI tables on the system. The XSDT points to the FADT, the
SSDTs, and other major ACPI tables. The FADT directs the ACPI subsystem to the DSDT, which is the beginning of
the namespace because DSDT is the first table that contains a definition block. The ACPI subsystem then consumes
the DSDT and begins building the ACPI namespace from the definition blocks. The XSDT also points to the SSDTs
and adds them to the namespace.
Runtime Model
After the system is up and running, ACPI works with the OS to handle any ACPI events that occur via an interrupt.
This interrupt invokes ACPI events in one of two general ways: fixed events and general purpose events (GPEs).
Fixed events are ACPI events that have a predefined meaning in the ACPI specification. These fixed events include
actions like pressing the power button or ACPI timer overflows. These events are handled directly by the OS handlers.
GPEs are ACPI events that are not predefined by the ACPI specification. These events are usually handled by evaluating
control methods, which are objects in the namespace and can access system hardware. When the ACPI subsystem
evaluates the control method with the AML interpreter, the GPE object handles the events according to the OS’s
implementation. Typically this might involve issuing a notification to a device to invoke the device driver to perform a
function.
We discuss a generic example of this runtime model in the next section.
Thermal Event Example
ACPI includes a thermal model to allow systems to control the system temperature either actively (by performing
actions like turning a fan on) or passively by reducing the amount of power the system uses (by performing actions like
throttling the processor). We can use an example of a generic thermal event shown in Figure i-5 to demonstrate how
the ACPI runtime model works.
The ACPI thermal zone includes control methods to read the current system temperature and trip points.
When the OS initially finds a thermal zone in the namespace, it loads the thermal zone driver, which evaluates the
thermal zone to obtain the current temperature and trip points.
CONTENTS
lxvi
