Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
ò Note
The 1.0 SMBus protocol specification is ambiguous about the definition of the “slave address” written into the
command field of the host controller. In this case, the slave address is actually the combination of the 7-bit slave
address and the Write protocol bit. Therefore, bit 0 of the initiating device’s slave address is aligned to bit 1 of
the host controller’s slave command register, bit 1 of the slave address is aligned to bit 2 of the controller’s slave
command register, and so on.
10.1.1.2 Smart Battery Charger with optional System Manager or Selector
A Smart Battery Charger that contains the optional System Manager or Selector function (as indicated by the Charg-
erSpecInfo() command register, 0x11, bit 4) is required to generate an SMBus Alarm Notify on a battery or AC status
change. The content of the Smart Battery Charger with an optional System Manager, the BatterySystemState() com-
mand register (0x21) (or in the case of an optional Selector, the SelectorState() (0x01) ), is placed in the EC’s Alarm
Data Registers, the Smart Battery Charger’s slave address (0x09) is placed in the embedded controller’s Alarm Address
Register, and the embedded controller’s Status Register’s Alarm bit is set. The embedded controller then asserts an
SCI.
10.1.1.3 Smart Battery System Manager
The Smart Battery System Manager is required to generate an SMBus Alarm Notify on a battery or AC status change.
The content of the Smart Battery System Manager’s BatterySystemState() command register (0x01) is placed in the
EC’s Alarm Data Registers, the Smart Battery System Manager’s slave address (0x0A) is placed in the EC’s Alarm
Address Register, and the embedded controller’s Status Register’s Alarm bit is set. The embedded controller then
asserts an SCI.
10.1.1.4 Smart Battery Selector
The requirements for the Smart Battery Selector are the same as the requirements for the Smart Battery System Manager,
with the exception that the contents of the SelectorState() command register (0x01) are used instead of BatterySystem-
State(). The Smart Battery Selector is a subset of the Smart Battery System Manager and does not have the added
support for simultaneous charge/discharge of multiple batteries. The System Manager is the preferred implementation.
10.1.2 Smart Battery Objects
The Smart Battery subsystem requires a number of objects to define its interface. These are summarized below:
Table 10.2: Smart Battery Objects
Object
Description
_HID
This is the hardware ID named object that contains a string. For Smart Battery subsystems, this
object returns the value of “ACPI0002.” This identifies the Smart Battery subsystem to the Smart
Battery driver.
_SBS
This is the Smart Battery named object that contains a DWORD. This named object returns the
configuration of the Smart Battery.
10.1. Smart Battery Subsystems
685
