Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5.2.1.4 Ignored Hardware Bits and Software Components
• Software handles ignored bits in ACPI hardware registers the same way it handles reserved bits in these same
types of registers.
5.2.2 Compatibility
All versions of the ACPI tables must maintain backward compatibility. To accomplish this, modifications of the tables
consist of redefinition of previously reserved fields and values plus appending data to the 1.0 tables. Modifications of
the ACPI tables require that the version numbers of the modified tables be incremented. The length field in the tables
includes all additions and the checksum is maintained for the entire length of the table.
5.2.3 Address Format
Addresses used in the ACPI 1.0 system description tables were expressed as either system memory or I/O space. This
was targeted at the IA-32 environment. Newer architectures require addressing mechanisms beyond that defined in
ACPI 1.0. To support these architectures ACPI must support 64-bit addressing and it must allow the placement of
control registers in address spaces other than System I/O.
5.2.3.1 Functional Fixed Hardware
ACPI defines the fixed hardware low-level interfaces as a means to convey to the system OEM the minimum interfaces
necessary to achieve a level of capability and quality for motherboard configuration and system power management.
Additionally, the definition of these interfaces, as well as others defined in this specification, conveys to OS Vendors
(OSVs) developing ACPI-compatible operating systems, the necessary interfaces that operating systems must manip-
ulate to provide robust support for system configuration and power management.
While the definition of low-level hardware interfaces defined by ACPI 1.0 afforded OSPM implementations a certain
level of stability, controls for existing and emerging diverse CPU architectures cannot be accommodated by this model
as they can require a sequence of hardware manipulations intermixed with native CPU instructions to provide the ACPI-
defined interface function. In this case, an ACPI-defined fixed hardware interface can be functionally implemented by
the CPU manufacturer through an equivalent combination of both hardware and software and is defined by ACPI as
Functional Fixed Hardware.
In IA-32-based systems, functional fixed hardware can be accommodated in an OS independent manner by using System
Management Mode (SMM) based system firmware. Unfortunately, the nature of SMM-based code makes this type of
OS independent implementation difficult if not impossible to debug. As such, this implementation approach is not
recommended. In some cases, Functional Fixed Hardware implementations may require coordination with other OS
components. As such, an OS independent implementation may not be viable.
OS-specific implementations of functional fixed hardware can be implemented using technical information supplied
by the CPU manufacturer. The downside of this approach is that functional fixed hardware support must be developed
for each OS. In some cases, the CPU manufacturer may provide a software component providing this support. In other
cases support for the functional fixed hardware may be developed directly by the OS vendor.
The hardware register definition was expanded, in ACPI 2.0, to allow registers to exist in address spaces other than the
System I/O address space. This is accomplished through the specification of an address space ID in the register defini-
tion (see Generic Address Structure for more information). When specifically directed by the CPU manufacturer, the
system firmware may define an interface as functional fixed hardware by indicating 0x7F (Functional Fixed Hardware),
in the address space ID field for register definitions. It is emphasized that functional fixed hardware definitions may be
declared in the ACPI system firmware only as indicated by the CPU Manufacturer for specific interfaces as the use of
functional fixed hardware requires specific coordination with the OS vendor.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
100
