Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
15.1 INT 15H, E820H - Query System Address Map
This interface is used in real mode only on IA-PC-based systems and provides a memory map for all of the installed
RAM, and of physical memory ranges reserved by the BIOS. The address map is returned through successive invoca-
tions of this interface; each returning information on a single range of physical addresses. Each range includes a type
that indicates how the range of physical addresses is to be treated by the OSPM.
If the information returned from E820 in some way differs from INT-15 88 or INT-15 E801, the information returned
from E820 supersedes the information returned from INT-15 88 or INT-15 E801. This replacement allows the BIOS
to return any information that it requires from INT-15 88 or INT-15 E801 for compatibility reasons. For compatibility
reasons, if E820 returns any AddressRangeACPI or AddressRangeNVS memory ranges below 16 MiB, the INT-15
88 and INT-15 E801 functions must return the top of memory below the AddressRangeACPI and AddressRangeNVS
memory ranges.
The memory map conveyed by this interface is not required to reflect any changes in available physical memory that
have occurred after the BIOS has initially passed control to the operating system. For example, if memory is added
dynamically, this interface is not required to reflect the new system memory configuration.
Table 15.2: Input to the INT 15h E820h Call
Regis-
ter
Contents
Description
EAX
Function Code
E820h
EBX
Continuation
Contains the continuation value to get the next range of physical memory. This is the
value returned by a previous call to this routine. If this is the first call, EBX must
contain zero.
ES:DI
Buffer Pointer
Pointer to an Address Range Descriptor structure that the BIOS fills in.
ECX
Buffer Size
The length in bytes of the structure passed to the BIOS. The BIOS fills in the number
of bytes of the structure indicated in the ECX register, maximum, or whatever amount
of the structure the BIOS implements. The minimum size that must be supported by
both the BIOS and the caller is 20 bytes. Future implementations might extend this
structure.
EDX
Signature
‘SMAP’ Used by the BIOS to verify the caller is requesting the system map informa-
tion to be returned in ES:DI.
Table 15.3: Output from the INT 15h E820h Call
Regis-
ter
Contents
Description
CF
Carry Flag
Non-Carry - Indicates No Error
EAX
Signature
‘SMAP.’ Signature to verify correct BIOS revision.
ES:DI
Buffer Pointer
Returned Address Range Descriptor pointer. Same value as on input.
ECX
Buffer Size
Number of bytes returned by the BIOS in the address range descriptor. The minimum
size structure returned by the BIOS is 20 bytes.
EBX
Continuation
Contains the continuation value to get the next address range descriptor. The actual
significance of the continuation value is up to the discretion of the BIOS. The caller
must pass the continuation value unchanged as input to the next iteration of the E820
call in order to get the next Address Range Descriptor. A return value of zero means
that this is the last descriptor. Note: the BIOS can also indicate that the last descriptor
has already been returned during previous iterations by returning the carry flag set.
The caller will ignore any other information returned by the BIOS when the carry flag
is set.
15.1. INT 15H, E820H - Query System Address Map
817
