Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
None
Return Value:
A variable-length Package consisting of references to devices being measured by the power meter:
Package {
Power Meter[0]
// NamePath
Power Meter[1]
// NamePath
...
Power Meter[n]
// NamePath
}
10.5 Wireless Power Controllers
FCC regulations dictate reduced output power levels for wireless devices in the presence of a human body. To get
platform certifications and for regulatory compliance, wireless devices put static transmit power limit data in device
memory (either EEPROM or flash) and apply it on a per band/country basis. FCC regulations allow devices to dynam-
ically reduce Effective Isotropically Radiated Power (EIRP) when in close proximity to a human body to mitigate its
adverse effects.
On current platforms, a dedicated Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) sensor for each wireless device is used for notify-
ing the wireless device that the system is in close proximity to a human body. This solution requires multiple SAR
sensors for systems that have multiple wireless devices, and doesn’t provide any mechanism for the wireless devices to
collaborate for better efficiency.
The idea is to create a well-defined Wireless Power Calibration ACPI device with an ACPI event which can constitute
the basis for notifying the Operating System (OS) and all other wireless devices on a given system. Wireless Power
Calibration device event can be triggered from any proximity sensor device or by wireless device to mitigate interference
from other wireless devices as well. The OS can then map specific notifications to each wireless device to invoke specific
actions.
1. Define Plug and play ID for Wireless Power Calibration device(ACPI0014)
Wireless Power Calibration Device. This device can have a control method to sense proximity using platform
defined sensor such as SAR, depth camera, touch device etc.
Device can also have control method to broadcast other wireless device notifying the user proximity change or
in band interference.
2. Define a notification value for the device
Notifying the Wireless Power Calibration device with specific ACPI notify event ID will enable wireless device
or platform drivers to notify if EIRP needs to be regulated.
Table 10.17: Wireless Power Calibration
Object
Description
_WPC
Indicate the WPC device current operational state.[Required]
_WPP
Evaluate the WPC object and return the status of last operational state.[Optional]
10.5. Wireless Power Controllers
717
