Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
The device configuration objects are listed in the table below.
Table 6.6: Device Configuration Objects
Object
Description
_CCA
Cache Coherency Attribute – specifies whether a device and its descendants support hardware
managed cache coherency.
_CDM
Object that specifies a clock domain for a processor.
_CRS
Object that specifies a device’s current resource settings, or a control method that generates such
an object.
_DIS
Control method that disables a device.
_DMA
Object that specifies a device’s current resources for DMA transactions.
_DSD
Object that evaluates to device specific information
_FIX
Object used to provide correlation between the fixed-hardware register blocks defined in the FADT
and the devices that implement these fixed-hardware registers.
_GSB
Object that provides the Global System Interrupt Base for a hot-plugged I/O APIC device.
_HMA
Object that provides updated HMAT structures.
_HPP
Object that specifies the cache-line size, latency timer, SERR enable, and PERR enable values to
be used when configuring a PCI device inserted into a hot-plug slot or initial configuration of a
PCI device at system boot.
_HPX
Object that provides device parameters when configuring a PCI device inserted into a hot-plug
slot or initial configuration of a PCI device at system boot. Supersedes _HPP.
_MAT
Object that evaluates to a buffer of Interrupt Controller Structures.
_OSC
An object OSPM evaluates to convey specific software support / capabilities to the platform al-
lowing the platform to configure itself appropriately.
_PRS
An object that specifies a device’s possible resource settings, or a control method that generates
such an object.
_PRT
Object that specifies the PCI interrupt routing table.
_PXM
Object that specifies a proximity domain for a device.
_SLI
Object that provides updated distance information for a system locality.
_SRS
Control method that sets a device’s settings.
6.2.1 _CDM (Clock Domain)
This optional object conveys the processor clock domain to which a processor belongs. A processor clock domain is a
unique identifier representing the hardware clock source providing the input clock for a given set of processors. This
clock source drives software accessible internal counters, such as the Time Stamp Counter, in each processor. Processor
counters in the same clock domain are driven by the same hardware clock source. In multi-processor platforms that
utilize multiple clock domains, such counters may exhibit drift when compared against processor counters on different
clock domains.
The _CDM object evaluates to an integer that identifies the device as belonging to a specific clock domain. OSPM
assumes that two devices in the same clock domain are connected to the same hardware clock.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer (DWORD) containing a clock domain identifier.
In the case the platform does not convey any clock domain information to OSPM via the SRAT or the _CDM object,
OSPM assumes all logical processors to be on a common clock domain. If the platform defines _CDM object under
a logical processor then it must define _CDM objects under all logical processors whose clock domain information is
not provided via the SRAT.
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
376
