Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 8.15 – continued from previous page
Core LPI
Cluster LPI
System LPI
Composite State Entry Method
Power Down Regis-
ter: 0xDEAD
Retention
Integer:
0x0
Run
Core
Power
Down
Retention
Register
0xDEAD+0x102000 0 = 0xDEAD
Power Down Regis-
ter: 0xDEAD
Power Down Inte-
ger: 0x1020000
Run
Core Power Down Power Down Register
0xDEAD+0x102000 0 = 0x102DEAD
Power Down Regis-
ter: 0xDEAD
Power Down Inte-
ger: 0x1020000
Power Down Regis-
ter : 0xDECEA5ED
System Power Down Register 0xDECEA5ED
As can be seen in the example, the cluster level retention state defines the integer value of 0 as its entry method. By
virtue of composition, this means that the entry methods for the composite states Core Power Down and Core Power
Down|Cluster Retention are the same (FFH register 0xDEAD). Similarly the composite states for Core Retention and
Core Retention|Cluster Retention are the same (FFH register 0xDEAF). Consequently, if both CPU0 and CPU1 are in
either Power Down or Power Retention, then the platform may enter cluster CLU0 into Retention.
The example also shows how a register based entry method at a high level overrides entry method definitions of lower
levels. As pointed above this is only possible if the selected LPI implies specific LPIs at all lower levels. In this
example the System Power Down LPI, entered through FFH register 0xDECEA5ED, implies Power Down LPIs at core
and cluster level since based on EPS, no other core/cluster local states could enable System Power Down.
8.4.3.3.5 Architecture Specific Context Loss Flags
For Intel based systems the value of this flags register is 0.
For ARM based systems please refer to links to ACPI-Related Documents ( http://uefi.org/acpi ) under the heading
“ARM FFH Specification”.
8.4.3.3.6 Residency and Entry Counter Registers
LPI state descriptions may optionally provide Residency and Usage Count registers to allow the OSPM to gather statis-
tics about the platform usage of a given local state. Both registers provide running counts of their respective statistics.
To measure a statistic over some time window, OSPM should sample at the beginning and end and calculate the delta.
Whether the counters restart from 0 on various flavors of reset/S-state exit is implementation defined so OSPM should
resynchronize its baseline on any reset or Sx exit.
The registers are optional, and if the feature is not present the platform must use a NULL register of the following form:
ResourceTemplate() {Register {(SystemMemory, 0, 0, 0, 0)}}
The Usage Count register counts how many times the local state has been used. Whether it counts entries or exits is
implementation defined.
The Residency register counts how long the hierarchy node has been in the given LPI state, at a rate given by LPI’s Res-
idency Counter Frequency field. A frequency of 0 indicates that the counter runs at an architecture-specific frequency.
Whether the Residency counter runs continuously while in a local state or updates only on exit is implementation de-
fined. If OSPM wants to guarantee that the reading for a particular state is current, it should read from that processor
itself (or one of the underlying child processors in the case of a higher level idle state).
8.4. Declaring Processors
548
