Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
7.3 Device Power Management Objects
For a device that is power-managed using ACPI, a Definition Block contains one or more of the objects found in the
table below. Power management of a device is done using Power Resource control.
Power Resources are resources that could be shared amongst multiple devices. The operating software will automat-
ically handle control of these devices by determining which particular Power Resources need to be in the ON state at
any given time. This determination is made by considering the state of all devices connected to a Power Resource. At
all times, OSPM ensures that any Power Resources no longer referenced by any device in the system is in the OFF state.
For systems that do not control device power states through power resource management (i.e. _PSx controls power
transitions), but whose devices support multiple D-states, more information is required by the OS to determine the
S-state to D-state mapping for the device. The ACPI firmware can give this information to OSPM by way of the _SxD
methods. These methods tell OSPM for S-state “x”, the shallowest D-state supported by the device is “y.” OSPM is
allowed to pick a deeper D-state for a given S-state, but OSPM is not allowed to go shallower than the given D-state.
Additional rules that apply to device power management objects are:
• A device cannot be in a shallower D-state than its parent device.
• If there exists an ACPI Object to set a device to D0 (either through _PSx or _PRx objects), then the corresponding
object to set the device into a deeper Dx must also be declared, and vice versa.
• If any ACPI Object that controls power (_PSx or _PRx, where x =0, 1, 2, or 3) exists, then methods to set the
device into D0 and D3 device states (at least) must be present.
• If a mixture of _PSx and _PRx methods is declared for the device, then the device states supported through _PSx
methods must be identical to the device states supported through _PRx methods.
ò Note
For non-ACPI devices (bus-enumerated devices like USB or PCI), architectural bus definitions may have more
stringent requirements.
When controlling power to devices which must wake the system during a system sleeping state:
• The device must declare its ability to wake the system by declaring either the _PRW or _PSW object.
• After OSPM has called _PTS, it must call the device’s _PSW to enable wake.
• OSPM must transition a device into a D-state which is deeper than or equal to that specified by the device’s
_SxD object (if present) to enable entry into Sx, but shallower than or equal to that specified by the device’s
_SxW object so that it can still wake the system.
• OSPM may transition the system to the specified sleep state.
Table 7.3: Device Power Management Child Objects
Object
Description
_DSW
Control method that enables or disables the device’s wake function for device-only wake.
_PS0
Control method that puts the device in the D0 device state (device fully on).
_PS1
Control method that puts the device in the D1 device state.
_PS2
Control method that puts the device in the D2 device state.
_PS3
Control method that puts the device in the D3 device state (device off).
_PSC
Object that evaluates to the device’s current power state.
_PR0
Object that evaluates to the device’s power requirements in the D0 device state (device fully on).
continues on next page
7.3. Device Power Management Objects
493
