Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
6.2.2 _CRS (Current Resource Settings)
This required object evaluates to a byte stream that describes the system resources currently allocated to a device.
Additionally, a bus device must supply the resources that it decodes and can assign to its children devices. If a device is
disabled, then _CRS returns a valid resource template for the device, but the actual resource assignments in the return
byte stream are ignored. If the device is disabled when _CRS is called, it must remain disabled.
The format of the data contained in a _CRS object follows the formats defined in Resource Data Types for ACPI,
which is a compatible extension of the Plug and Play BIOS Specification (see reference below). The resource data
is provided as a series of data structures, with each of the resource data structures having a unique tag or identifier.
The resource descriptor data structures specify the standard PC system resources, such as memory address ranges, I/O
ports, interrupts, and DMA channels.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A Buffer containing a resource descriptor byte stream
A link to the Plug and Play BIOS Specification can be found at http://uefi.org/acpi under the heading “Plug and Play
BIOS Specification.”
Also see the related link on the above website for the Windows Generic Device IDs and Plug and Play BIOS device
type codes.
6.2.3 _DIS (Disable)
This control method disables a device. When the device is disabled, it must not be decoding any hardware resources.
Prior to running this control method, OSPM will have already put the device in the D3 state.
When a device is disabled via _DIS, the _STA control method for this device must return with the Enabled bit (Bit 1)
clear.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
None
6.2.4 _DMA (Direct Memory Access)
This optional object returns a byte stream in the same format as a _CRS object. _DMA is only defined under devices
that represent buses. It specifies the ranges the bus controller (bridge) decodes on the child-side of its interface. (This
is analogous to the _CRS object, which describes the resources that the bus controller decodes on the parent-side of
its interface.) Any ranges described in the resources of a _DMA object can be used by child devices for DMA or bus
arbiter transactions.
The presence of an empty _DMA object, one with no resources specified in it, is an indication that DMA generation
capability is disabled for the device and its children. For instance, an empty _DMA might be used for a set of devices
that are DMA capable by themselves, but do not have a DMA path in the current system.
The _DMA object is only valid if a _CRS object is also defined. OSPM must re-evaluate the _DMA object after an
_SRS object has been executed because the _DMA ranges resources may change depending on how the bridge has been
configured.
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
377
