CHAPTER
TWENTY
ACPI MACHINE LANGUAGE (AML) SPECIFICATION
This chapter formally defines the ACPI Machine Language (AML), which is the virtual machine language for ACPI
control methods on an ACPI-compatible OS. ACPI control methods can be written directly in AML, but people usually
write them in ASL and then compile to AML.
AML is the language processed by the ACPI AML interpreter. It is primarily a declarative language. It’s best not to
think of it as a stream of code, but rather as a set of declarations that the ACPI AML interpreter will compile into
the ACPI Namespace at definition block load time. For example, notice that DefByte allocates an anonymous integer
variable with a byte-size initial value in ACPI namespace, and passes in an initial value. The byte in the AML stream
that defines the initial value is not the address of the variable’s storage location.
An OEM or platform firmware vendor needs to write ASL and be able to single-step AML for debugging. (Debug-
gers and other ACPI control method language tools are expected to be AML-level tools, not source-level tools.) An
ASL translator implementer must understand how to read ASL and generate AML. An AML interpreter author must
understand how to execute AML.
AML and ASL are different languages, though they are closely related.
All ACPI-compatible operating systems must support AML. A given user can define some arbitrary source language
(to replace ASL) and write a tool to translate it to AML. However, the ACPI group will support a single translator for
a single language, ASL.
20.1 Notation Conventions
The notation conventions in the table below help the reader to interpret the AML formal grammar.
Table 20.1: AML Grammar Notation Conventions
Notation Convention
Description
Example
0xdd
Refers to a byte value ex-
pressed as 2 hexadecimal
digits.
0x21
Number in bold.
Denotes the encoding of
the AML term.
Term => Evaluated Type
Shows the resulting type
of the evaluation of Term.
Single quotes (’ ‘)
Indicate constant charac-
ters.
‘A’ => 0x41
continues on next page
1058
