Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.181 – continued from previous page
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
SMBIOS Handles
2xn
32
Refers to corresponding SMBIOS Type-17 Handles Structure
that contains Physical Memory Component related informa-
tion
Implementation Note: A proximity domain should contain only one set of memory attributes. If memory attributes
differ, represent them in different proximity domains. If the Memory Side Cache Information Structure is present, the
System Locality Latency and Bandwidth Information Structure shall contain latency and bandwidth information for
each memory side cache level. When Address Mode is 1 ‘Extended-Linear’ it indicates that the associated address range
(SRAT.MemoryAffinityStructure.Length) is comprised of the backing store capacity extended by the cache capacity. It
is arranged such that there are N directly addressable aliases of a given cacheline where N is the ratio of target memory
proximity domain size and the memory side cache size. Where the N aliased addresses for a given cacheline all share
the same result for the operation ‘address modulo cache size’. This setting is only allowed when ‘Cache Associativity’
is ‘Direct Map’.”
5.2.30 Platform Debug Trigger Table (PDTT)
This section describes the format of the Platform Debug Trigger Table (PDTT) description table, which is an optional
table that describes one or more PCC subspace identifiers that can be used to trigger/notify the platform specific debug
facilities to capture non-architectural system state. This is intended as a standard mechanism for the OSPM to notify
the platform of a fatal crash (e.g. kernel panic or bug check).
This table is intended for platforms that provide debug hardware facilities that can capture system info beyond the
normal OS crash dump. This trigger could be used to capture platform specific state information (e.g. firmware state,
on-chip hardware facilities, auxiliary controllers, etc.). This type of debug feature could be leveraged on mobile, client,
and enterprise platforms.
Certain platforms may have multiple debug subsystems that must be triggered individually. This table accommodates
such systems by allowing multiple triggers to be listed.
After triggering debug facilities, the CPU may continue to operate as expected so that the kernel may continue with
crash processing/handling (e.g. possibly attempting to attach a debugger or proceed with a full crash dump prior to
rebooting the system), depending on the value defined in Trigger order. Please refer to Section 5.2.30.2 for more details.
After triggering debug facilities, the CPU must continue to operate as expected so that the kernel may continue with
crash processing/handling (e.g. possibly attempting to attach a debugger or proceed with a full crash dump prior to
rebooting the system).
On some platforms, the debug trigger may put some hardware components/peripherals into a frozen non-operational
state, and so the debug trigger is not recommended to be used during normal run-time operation.
Other platforms may allow the debug trigger for capture system state to debug run-time behavioral issues (e.g. system
performance and power issues), specified by the “Run-time” flag field in Table 5.183.
When multiple triggers exist, the triggers within each of the two groups, defined by trigger order, will be executed in
order. OSPM may need to wait for PCC completion before executing next trigger based on the “Wait for Completion”
flag field in Table 5.183.
Note: The mechanism by which this system debug state information is retrieved by the user is platform and vendor
specific. This will most likely will require special tools and privileges in order to access and parse the platform debug
information captured by this trigger.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
260
