Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5.2.11 Definition Blocks
A Definition Block consists of data in AML format (see Section 5.4 “Definition Block Encoding”) and contains infor-
mation about hardware implementation details in the form of AML objects that contain data, AML code, or other AML
objects. The top-level organization of this information after a definition block is loaded is name-tagged in a hierarchical
namespace.
OSPM “loads” or “unloads” an entire definition block as a logical unit. OSPM will load a definition block either as
a result of executing the AML Load() or LoadTable() operator or encountering a table definition during initialization.
During initialization, OSPM loads the Differentiated System Description Table (DSDT), which contains the Differenti-
ated Definition Block, using the DSDT pointer retrieved from the FADT. OSPM will load other definition blocks during
initialization as a result of encountering Secondary System Description Table (SSDT) definitions in the RSDT/XSDT.
Each SSDT must be loaded in the order presented in the RSDT/XSDT. The DSDT and SSDT are described in the
following sections.
As mentioned, the AML Load() and LoadTable() operators make it possible for a Definition Block to load other Def-
inition Blocks, either statically or dynamically, where they in turn can either define new system attributes or, in some
cases, build on prior definitions. Although this gives the hardware the ability to vary widely in implementation, it
also confines it to reasonable boundaries. In some cases, the Definition Block format can describe only specific and
well-understood variances. In other cases, it permits implementations to be expressible only by means of a specified
set of “built in” operators. For example, the Definition Block has built in operators for I/O space.
In theory, it might be possible to define something like PCI configuration space in a Definition Block by building it
from I/O space, but that is not the goal of the definition block. Such a space is usually defined as a “built in” operator.
Some AML operators perform simple functions, and others encompass complex functions. The power of the Definition
block comes from its ability to allow these operations to be glued together in numerous ways, to provide functionality
to OSPM.
The AML operators defined in this specification are intended to allow many useful hardware designs to be easily
expressed, not to allow all hardware designs to be expressed.
Note: To accommodate addressing beyond 32 bits, the integer type was expanded to 64 bits in ACPI 2.0, see Section
19.3.5 . Existing ACPI definition block implementations may contain an inherent assumption of a 32-bit integer width.
Therefore, to maintain backwards compatibility, OSPM uses the Revision field, in the header portion of system descrip-
tion tables containing Definition Blocks, to determine whether integers declared within the Definition Block are to be
evaluated as 32-bit or 64-bit values. A Revision field value greater than or equal to 2 signifies that integers declared
within the Definition Block are to be evaluated as 64-bit values. The ASL writer specifies the value for the Definition
Block table header’s Revision field via the ASL Definition Block’s ComplianceRevision field. See Section 19.6.29 ,
for more information. It is the responsibility of the ASL writer to ensure the Definition Block’s compatibility with the
corresponding integer width when setting the ComplianceRevision field.
5.2.11.1 Differentiated System Description Table (DSDT)
The Differentiated System Description Table (DSDT) is part of the system fixed description. The DSDT is comprised
of a system description table header followed by data in Definition Block format. See Section 5.2.11 for a description
of Definition Blocks. During initialization, OSPM finds the pointer to the DSDT in the Fixed ACPI Description Table
(using the FADT’s DSDT or X_DSDT fields) and then loads the DSDT to create the ACPI Namespace.
Table 5.17: Differentiated System Description Table Fields (DSDT)
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Signature
4
0
‘DSDT’ Signature for the Differentiated System Description
Table.
continues on next page
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
131
