Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
18.3.2.7.1 Generic Error Data
The Error Status Block contains the error status information for a given generic error source. OSPM provides an error
handler that formats one or more of these blocks as necessary for the specific operating system.
The generic error status block includes two levels of information. The top level is a Generic Error Status Block structure
as defined in the following table. The next level is one or more Generic Error Data Entry structures, defined in the
second table below.
Table 18.11: Generic Error Status Block
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Block Status
4
0
Indicates the type of error information reported in the error packet:
Bit [0] - Uncorrectable Error Valid: If set to one, indicates that an
uncorrectable error condition exists.
Bit [1] - Correctable Error Valid: If set to one, indicates that a correctable
error condition exists.
Bit [2] - Multiple Uncorrectable Errors: If set to one, indicates that more
than one uncorrectable errors have been detected.
Bit [3] - Multiple Correctable Errors: If set to one, indicates that more
than one correctable error has been detected.
Bits [13:4] - Error Data Entry Count: This value indicates the number of
Error Data Entries found in the Data section.
Bits [31:14] - Reserved
Raw Data Off-
set
4
4
Offset in bytes from the beginning of the Error Status Block to raw error
data. The raw data must follow any Generic Error Data Entries.
Raw
Data
Length
4
8
Length in bytes of the raw data.
Data Length
4
12
Length in bytes of the generic error data.
Error Severity
4
16
Identifies the error severity of the reported error::
0 - Recoverable
1 - Fatal
2 - Corrected
3 - None. Note: This is the error severity of the entire event. Each
Generic Error Data Entry also includes its own Error Severity field.
Generic Error
Data Entries
Data
Length
20
The information contained in this field is a collection of zero or more
Generic Error Data Entries.
One or more Generic Error Data Entry structures may be recorded in the Generic Error Data Entries field of the Generic
Error Status Block structure. This allows the platform to accumulate information for multiple hardware components
related to a given error event. For example, if the generic error source represents an error that occurs on a device on the
secondary side of a PCI Express / PCI-X Bridge, it is useful to record error information from the PCI Express Bridge
and from the PCI-X device. Utilizing two Generic Error Data Entry structures enables this - see Table 18.12 below.
For more details of the fields described in the following table, see the definition of Section Descriptors in the UEFI
Specification appendix for the Common Platform Error Record.
18.3. Error Source Discovery
857
