Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.78 – continued from previous page
Enabled
1
0
If clear, the OSPM ignores the contents of the Generic Ini-
tiator/Port Affinity Structure. This allows system firmware to
populate the SRAT with a static number of structures, but only
enable them as necessary.
Architectural transactions
1
1
If set, indicates that the Generic Initiator/Port can initiate all
transactions at the same architectural level as the host (e.g. full
atomicOps, cache coherency, virtual memory, etc.) See imple-
mentation note following.
Reserved
30
2
Must be zero.
ò Note
If a generic device with coherent memory is attached to the system, it is recommended to define affinity structures
for both the device and memory associated with the device. They both may have the same proximity domain.
If a generic device is marked with “architectural transactions,” the Generic Initiator supports all applicable architectural
mechanisms for cache synchronization, atomicOps and virtual memory, etc. - fully equivalent to the memory model
of the host processor (with potentially different but equivalent instruction mechanisms in its ISA).
Supporting a subset of architectural transactions would be only permissible if the lack of the feature does not have
material consequences to the memory model. One example is lack of cache coherency support on the GI, if the GI does
not have any local caches to global memory that require invalidation through the data fabric.
OS is assured that the GI adheres to the memory model as the host processor architecture related to observable trans-
actions to memory for memory fences and other synchronization operations issued on either initiator or host.
5.2.16.8 RINTC Affinity Structure
The RINTC Affinity Structure provides the association between the ACPI Processor UID of a RISC-V processor and
the proximity domain to which the processor belongs. Table below provides the details of the RINTC Affinity structure.
Table 5.79: RINTC Affinity Structure
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Type
1
0
7 RINTC Affinity Structure
Length
1
1
20
Reserved
2
2
Must be zero
Proximity Domain
4
4
The proximity domain to which the logical processor belongs.
ACPI
Processor
UID
4
8
The ACPI Processor UID of the associated RINTC.
Flags
4
12
Flags - RINTC Affinity Structure. See the corresponding table below
for a description of this field.
Clock Domain
4
16
The clock domain to which the logical processor belongs.
See
_CDM (Clock Domain).
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
172
