Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
and maximize system battery life. Power management involves trade-offs among system speed, noise, battery
life, processing speed, and alternating current (AC) power consumption. Power management is required for some
system functions, such as appliance (for example, answering machine, furnace control) operations.
Power Resources
Resources (for example, power planes and clock sources) that a device requires to operate in a given power state.
Power Sources
The battery (including a UPS battery) and AC line powered adapters or power supplies that supply power to a
platform.
Register Grouping
Consists of two register blocks (it has two pointers to two different blocks of registers). The fixed-position bits
within a register grouping can be split between the two register blocks. This allows the bits within a register
grouping to be split between two chips.
Reserved Bits
Some unused bits in ACPI hardware registers are designated as “Reserved” in the ACPI specification. For future
extensibility, hardware-register reserved bits always return zero, and data writes to them have no side effects.
OSPM implementations must write zeros to all reserved bits in enable and status registers and preserve bits in
control registers.
Root System Description Pointer (RSDP)
An ACPI-compatible system must provide an RSDP in the system’s low address space. This structure’s only
purpose is to provide the physical address of the RSDT and XSDT.
Root System Description Table (RSDT)
A table with the signature ‘RSDT,’ followed by an array of physical pointers to other system description tables.
The OS locates that RSDT by following the pointer in the RSDP structure.
Runtime Firmware
Generic term to describe any firmware on a platform used during runtime (i.e., after the boot process has com-
pleted). Use a more specific term, if possible.
Secondary System Description Table (SSDT)
SSDTs are a continuation of the DSDT. Multiple SSDTs can be used as part of a platform description. After the
DSDT is loaded into the ACPI Namespace, each secondary description table listed in the RSDT/XSDT with a
unique OEM Table ID is loaded. This allows the OEM to provide the base support in one table, while adding
smaller system options in other tables.
System Physical Address (SPA)
The platform physical address assigned and programmed by the platform and utilized by the OS.
Sleep Button
A user push button that switches the system from the sleeping/soft off state to the working state, and signals the
OS to transition to a sleeping state from the working state.
Smart Battery Subsystem
A battery subsystem that conforms to the following specifications: Smart Battery and either Smart Battery System
Manager or Smart Battery Charger and Selector–and the additional ACPI requirements.
Smart Battery Table
An ACPI table used on platforms that have a Smart Battery subsystem. This table indicates the energy-level trip
points that the platform requires for placing the system into different sleeping states and suggested energy levels
for warning the user to transition the platform into a sleeping state.
SMBus Interface
A standard hardware and software communications interface between an OS bus driver and an SMBus controller.
Software
Software is comprised of elements required to load the operating system and all user applications and user data
2.1. General ACPI Terminology
22
