CHAPTER
FOUR
ACPI HARDWARE SPECIFICATION
ACPI defines standard interface mechanisms that allow an ACPI-compatible OS to control and communicate with
an ACPI-compatible hardware platform. These interface mechanisms are optional (See “Hardware-Reduced ACPI”,
below).However, if the ACPI Hardware Specification is implemented, platforms must comply with the requirements in
this section.
This section describes the hardware aspects of ACPI.
ACPI defines “hardware” as a programming model and its behavior. ACPI strives to keep much of the existing legacy
programming model the same; however, to meet certain feature goals, designated features conform to a specific ad-
dressing and programming scheme. Hardware that falls within this category is referred to as “fixed.”
Although ACPI strives to minimize these changes, hardware engineers should read this section carefully to understand
the changes needed to convert a legacy-only hardware model to an ACPI/Legacy hardware model or an ACPI-only
hardware model.
ACPI classifies hardware into two categories: Fixed or Generic. Hardware that falls within the fixed category meets the
programming and behavior specifications of ACPI. Hardware that falls within the generic category has a wide degree
of flexibility in its implementation.
4.1 Hardware-Reduced ACPI
For certain classes of systems the ACPI Hardware Specification may not be adequate. Examples include legacy-free,
UEFI-based platforms with recent processors, and those implementing mobile platform architectures. For such plat-
forms, a Hardware-reduced ACPI mode is defined. Under this definition, the ACPI Fixed Hardware interface is not im-
plemented, and software alternatives for many of the features it supports are used instead. Note, though, that Hardware-
reduced ACPI is not intended to support every possible ACPI system that can be built today. Rather, it is intended to
introduce new systems that are designed to be HW-reduced from the start. The ACPI HW Specification should be used
if the platform cannot be designed to work without it. Specifically, the following features are not supported under the
HW-reduced definition:
• The Global Lock, SMI_CMD, ACPI Enable and ACPI Disable. Hardware-reduced ACPI systems always boot
in ACPI mode, and do not support hardware resource sharing between OSPM and other asynchronous operating
environments, such as UEFI Runtime Services or System Management Mode.
• Bus Master Reload and Arbiter Disable. Systems that depend on OS use of these bits to maintain cache coherency
across processor sleep states are not supported.
• GPE block devices are not supported.
Platforms that require the above features must implement the ACPI Hardware Specification.
Platforms that are designed for the Hardware-reduced ACPI definition must implement Revision 5 or greater of the
Fixed ACPI Descriptor Table, and must set the HW_REDUCED_ACPI flag in the Flags field.
52
