Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
ACPI Platform Firmware
Refers to the portion of the firmware that is compatible with the ACPI specifications. Typically, this is the code that
boots the machine (as legacy BIOSs have done) and implements interfaces for sleep, wake, and some restart operations.
It is called rarely, compared to a legacy BIOS. The ACPI Description Tables are also provided by the ACPI Platform
Firmware.
1.7 OS and Platform Compliance
The ACPI specification contains only interface specifications. ACPI does not contain any platform compliance re-
quirements. The following sections provide guidelines for class specific platform implementations that reference
ACPI-defined interfaces and guidelines for enhancements that operating systems may require to completely support
OSPM/ACPI. The minimum feature implementation requirements of an ACPI-compatible OS are also provided.
1.7.1 Platform Implementations of ACPI-defined Interfaces
System platforms implement ACPI-defined hardware interfaces via the platform hardware and ACPI-defined software
interfaces and system description tables via the ACPI system firmware. Specific ACPI-defined interfaces and OSPM
concepts while appropriate for one class of machine (for example, a mobile system), may not be appropriate for an-
other class of machine (for example, a multi-domain enterprise server). It is beyond the capability and scope of this
specification to specify all platform classes and the appropriate ACPI-defined interfaces that should be required for the
platform class.
Platform design guide authors are encouraged to require the appropriate ACPI-defined interfaces and hardware require-
ments suitable to the particular system platform class addressed in a particular design guide. Platform design guides
should not define alternative interfaces that provide similar functionality to those defined in the ACPI specification.
1.7.1.1 Recommended Features and Interface Descriptions for Design Guides
Common description text and category names should be used in design guides to describe all features, concepts, and
interfaces defined by the ACPI specification as requirements for a platform class. Listed below is the recommended set
of high-level text and category names to be used to describe the features, concepts, and interfaces defined by ACPI.
ò Note
The definitions and relational requirements of the interfaces specified below are generally spread throughout the
ACPI specification:
• System Address Map Interfaces
• ACPI System Description Tables
• Root System Description Pointer (RSDP)
• System Description Table Header
• Root System Description Table (RSDT)
• Fixed ACPI Description Table (FADT)
• Firmware ACPI Control Structure (FACS)
• Differentiated System Description Table (DSDT)
• Secondary System Description Table (SSDT)
1.7. OS and Platform Compliance
6
