Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
6.5.3 _BDN (BIOS Dock Name)
_BDN is used to correlate a docking station reported via ACPI and the same docking station reported via legacy
interfaces. It is primarily used for upgrading over non-ACPI environments.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer that contains the EISA Dock ID
_BDN must appear under a device object that represents the dock, that is, the device object with _Ejx
methods. This object must return a DWORD that is the EISA-packed DockID returned by the Plug and
Play BIOS Function 5 (Get Docking Station Identifier) for a dock.
ò Note
If the machine does not support PNPBIOS, this object is not required.
6.5.4 _REG (Region)
The OS runs _REG control methods to inform AML code of a change in the availability of an operation region. When
an operation region handler is unavailable, AML cannot access data fields in that region. (Operation region writes will
be ignored and reads will return indeterminate data.)
Arguments: (2)
Arg0 – An Integer containing the Operation Region address space ID and optional supplementary qualifier
(See Section 5.5.2.4 and Table 5.1.)
Arg1 - An Integer containing the handler connection code:
0 – disconnect the handler
1 – connect the handler
Return Value:
None
Except for the cases shown below, control methods must assume all operation regions are inaccessible until the
_REG(RegionSpace, 1) method is executed, where RegionSpace is the address space ID, or the address space ID
with an additional qualifier, depending on the operation region. For more information on which operation regions have
address space qualifiers, see Access to Operation Regions. Once _REG has been executed for a particular operation
region, indicating that the operation region handler is ready, a control method can access fields in the operation re-
gion. Conversely, control methods must not access fields in operation regions when _REG method execution has not
indicated that the operation region handler is ready.
For example, until the Embedded Controller driver is ready, the control methods cannot access the Embedded Con-
troller. Once OSPM has run _REG(EmbeddedControl, 1), the control methods can then access operation regions in
Embedded Controller address space. Furthermore, if OSPM executes _REG(EmbeddedControl, 0), control methods
must stop accessing operation regions in the Embedded Controller address space.
The exceptions for the above rule are:
1. OSPM must guarantee that the following operation regions are always accessible:
• PCI_Config operation regions on a PCI root bus containing a _BBN object.
6.5. Other Objects and Control Methods
478
