APPENDIX
A
APPENDIX A: DEVICE CLASS SPECIFICATIONS
This section defines the behavior of devices as that behavior relates to power management and, specifically, to the four
device power states defined by ACPI. The goal is enabling device vendors to design power-manageable products that
meet the basic needs of OSPM and can be utilized by any ACPI-compatible operating system.
A.1 Overview
The power management of individual devices is the responsibility of a policy owner in the operating system. This
software element will implement a power management policy that is appropriate for the type (or class) of device be-
ing managed. Device power management policy typically operates in conjunction with a global system power policy
implemented in the operating system.
In general, the device-class power management policy strives to reduce power consumption while the system is working
by transitioning among various available power states according to device usage. The challenge facing policy owners is
to minimize power consumption without adversely impacting the system’s usability. This balanced approach provides
the user with both power savings and good performance.
Because the policy owner has very specific knowledge about when a device is in use or potentially in use, there is no
need for hardware timers or such to determine when to make these transitions. Similarly, this level of understanding
of device usage makes it possible to use fewer device power states. Generally, intermediate states attempt to draw a
compromise between latency and consumption because of the uncertainty of actual device usage. With the increased
knowledge in the OS, good decisions can be made about whether the device is needed at all. With this ability to turn
devices off more frequently, the benefit of having intermediate states diminishes.
The policy owner also determines what class-specific events can cause the system to transition from sleeping to working
states, and enables this functionality based on application or user requests. Notice that the definition of the wake events
that each class supports will influence the system’s global power policy in terms of the level of power management a
system sleeping state can attain while still meeting wake latency requirements set by applications or the user.
A.2 Device Power States
The following definitions apply to devices of all classes:
• D0. State in which device is on and running. It is receiving full power from the system and is delivering full
functionality to the user.
• D1. Class-specific low-power state (defined in the following section) in which device context may or may not be
lost. Buses in D1 cannot do anything to the bus that would force devices on that bus to lose context.
• D2. Class-specific low-power state (defined in the following section) in which device context may or may not be
lost. Attains greater power savings than D1. Buses in D2 can cause devices on that bus to lose some context (for
1090
