Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Chapter 16: Waking and Sleeping
Defines in detail the transitions between system working and sleeping states and their relationship to wake events.
Refers to the reserved objects defined in Chapters 6, 7, and 8.
Chapter 17: Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) Architecture Platforms
Discusses in detail how ACPI define interfaces can be used to describe a NUMA architecture platform. Refers
to the reserved objects defined in Chapters 5, 6, 8, and 9.
Chapter 18: ACPI Platform Error Interfaces
Defines interfaces that enable OSPM to processes different types of hardware error events that are detected by
platform-based error detection hardware.
1.9.4 Technical Reference
The fourth part of the specification contains reference material for developers.
Chapter 19: ACPI Source Language Reference
Defines the syntax of all the ASL statements that can be used to write ACPI control methods, along with example
syntax usage.
Chapter 20: ACPI Machine Language Specification
Defines the grammar of the language of the ACPI virtual machine language. An ASL translator (compiler)
outputs AML.
Chapter 21: ACPI Data Tables and Table Language Definition
Describes a simple language (the Table Definition Language or TDL) that can be used to generate any ACPI data
table.
Appendix A: Device class specifications
Describes device-specific power management behavior on a per device-class basis.
Appendix B: Video Extensions
Contains video device class-specific ACPI interfaces
1.9.5 Revision Numbers
Updates to the ACPI specification are considered either new revisions or errata as described below:
• A new revision is produced when there is substantive new content or changes that may modify existing behavior.
New revisions are designated by a Major.Minor version number (e.g. 6.3). In cases where the changes are
exceptionally minor, we may have a Major.Minor.Minor naming convention (e.g. 6.3.1).
• An errata is produced when proposed changes or fixes of the specification do not include any significant new
material or modify existing behavior. Errata are designated by adding an upper-case letter at the end of the
version number, such as 6.2A.
1.10 Related Documents
Power management and Plug and Play specifications for legacy hardware platforms are available from Links to ACPI-
Related Documents:
• Advanced Power Management (APM) BIOS Specification
• Plug and Play BIOS Specification
1.10. Related Documents
14
