Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
each power state (for example, the net card can receive, but cannot transmit; the sound card is fully functional
except that the power amps are off, and so on).
Device Wakeup Characteristics
Each class of device has a standard definition of its wake policy.
The Device Class power management specifications define these power state characteristics for each class of device.
See Appendix A: Device Class Specifications.
3.4 Controlling Device Power
ACPI interfaces provide the control methods and information needed to manage device power. OSPM leverages these
interfaces to perform tasks like determining the capabilities of a device, executing methods to set a device’s power state
or get its status, and enabling a device to wake the machine.
• Other buses enumerate some devices on the main board. For example, PCI devices are reported through the
standard PCI enumeration mechanisms. Power management of these devices is handled through their own bus
specification (in this case, PCI). All other devices on the main board are handled through ACPI. Specifically, the
ACPI table lists legacy devices that cannot be reported through their own bus specification, the root of each bus
in the system, and devices that have additional power management or configuration options not covered by their
own bus specification.
For more detailed information see Section 7
3.4.1 Getting Device Power Capabilities
As the OS enumerates devices in the system, it gets information about the power management features that the device
supports. The Differentiated Definition Block given to the OS by the platform boot firmware describes every device
handled by ACPI. This description contains the following information:
• A description of what power resources (power planes and clock sources) the device needs in each power state
that the device supports. For example, a device might need a high power bus and a clock in the D0 state but only
a low-power bus and no clock in the D2 state.
• A description of what power resources a device needs in order to wake the machine (or none to indicate that the
device does not support wake). The OS can use this information to infer what device and system power states
from which the device can support wake.
• The optional control method the OS can use to set the power state of the device and to get and set resources.
In addition to describing the devices handled by ACPI, the table lists the power planes and clock sources themselves
and the control methods for turning them on and off. For detailed information, see Section 7.
3.4.2 Setting Device Power States
OSPM uses the Set Power State operation to put a device into one of the four power states.
When a device is put in a lower power state, it configures itself to draw as little power from the bus as possible. The
OS tracks the state of all devices on the bus, and will put the bus in the best power state based on the current device
requirements on that bus. For example, if all devices on a bus are in the D3 state, the OS will send a command to the
bus control chip set to remove power from the bus (thus putting the bus in the D3 state). If a particular bus supports a
low-power supply state, the OS puts the bus in that state if all devices are in the D1 or D2 state. Whatever power state
a device is in, the OS must be able to issue a Set Power State command to resume the device.
• The device does not need to have power to do this. The OS must turn on power to the device before it can send
commands to the device.
3.4. Controlling Device Power
35
