Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
When OSPM performs the EXECUTE_OPERATION action in the context of a record write operation, the platform
attempts to transfer the error record from the designated offset in the Error Log Address Range to a persistent store of
its choice. If the Error Log Address Range is non-volatile RAM, no transfer is required.
Where the platform is required to transfer the error record from the Error Log Address Range to a persistent store, it
performs the following steps in response to receiving a write command:
1. Sets some internal state to indicate that it is busy. OSPM polls by executing a CHECK_BUSY_STATUS action
until the operation is completed.
2. Reads the error record’s Record ID field to determine where on the storage medium the supplied error record is
to be written. The platform attempts to locate the specified error record on the persistent store.
• If the specified error record does not exist, the platform attempts to write a new record to the persistent
store.
• If the specified error record does exists, then if the existing error record is large enough to be overwritten
by the supplied error record, the platform can do an in-place replacement. If the existing record is not large
enough to be overwritten, the platform must attempt to locate space in which to write the new record. It
may mark the existing record as Free and coalesce adjacent free records in order to create the necessary
space.
3. Transfers the error record to the selected location on the persistent store.
4. Updates an internal Record Count if a new record was written.
5. Records the status of the operation so OSPM can retrieve the status by executing a GET_COMMAND_STATUS
action.
6. Modifies internal busy state as necessary so when OS PM executes CHECK_BUSY_STATUS, the result indi-
cates that the operation is complete.
If the Error Log Address Range resides in NVRAM, the minimum steps required of the platform are:
1. Sets some internal state to indication that it is busy. OSPM polls by executing a CHECK_BUSY_STATUS action
until the operation is completed.
2. Records the status of the operation so OSPM can retrieve the status by executing a GET_COMMAND_STATUS
action.
3. Clear internal busy state so when OS PM executes CHECK_BUSY_STATUS, the result indicates that the oper-
ation is complete.
18.5.2.2 Reading
During boot, OSPM attempts to retrieve all serialized error records from the persistent store. If the Error Log Address
Range does not reside in NVRAM, the following steps are executed by OSPM to retrieve all error records:
1. Executes the BEGIN_ READ_OPERATION action to notify the platform that a record read operation is begin-
ning.
2. Executes the SET_ RECORD_OFFSET action to inform the platform at what offset in the Error Log Address
Range the error record is to be transferred.
3. Executes the SET_RECORD_IDENTIFER action to inform the platform which error record is to be read from
its persistent store.
4. Executes the EXECUTE_OPERATION action to instruct the platform to begin the read operation.
5. Busy waits by continually executing CHECK_BUSY_STATUS action until FALSE is returned.
6. Executes a GET_COMMAND_STATUS action to determine the status of the read operation.
18.5. Error Serialization
873
