Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
controller. OSPM will then schedule the control method associated with the query value of 35 to be executed, which
services the docking event.
For each of the status bits in the GPEx_STS register, there is a corresponding enable bit in the GPEx_EN register.
Notice that the child status bits do not necessarily need enable bits (see the DOCK_STS bit).
The lid logic contains a control bit to determine if its status bit is set when the LID is open (LID_POL is set and LID
is set) or closed (LID_POL is clear and LID is clear). This control bit resides in generic I/O space (in this case, bit 2
of system I/O space 33h) and would be manipulated with a control method associated with the lid object.
As with fixed hardware events, OSPM will clear the status bits in the GPEx register blocks. However, AML code clears
all sibling status bits in the generic hardware.
Generic hardware features are controlled by OEM supplied control methods, encoded in AML. ACPI provides both
an event and control model for development of these features. The ACPI specification also provides specific control
methods for notifying OSPM of certain power management and Plug and Play events. ACPI Software Programming
Model provides information on the types of hardware functionality that support the different types of subsystems. The
following is a list of features supported by ACPI. The list is not intended to be complete or comprehensive.
• Device insertion/ejection (for example, docking, device bay, A/C adapter)
• Batteries *
• Platform thermal subsystem
• Turning on/off power resources
• Mobile lid Interface
• Embedded controller
• System indicators
• OEM-specific wake events
• Plug and Play configuration
ò Note
ACPI operating systems assume the use of the Smart Battery System Implementers Forum defined standard for
batteries, called the “Smart Battery Specification” (SBS). ACPI provides a set of control methods for use by OEMs
that use a proprietary “control method” battery interface.
4.8.4.1 General-Purpose Event Register Blocks
ACPI supports up to two general-purpose register blocks as described in the FADT (see ACPI Software Programming
Model ), and an arbitrary number of additional GPE blocks described as devices within the ACPI namespace. Each
register block contains two registers: an enable and a status register. Each register block is 32-bit aligned. Each register
in the block is accessed as a byte. It is up to the specific design to determine if these bits retain their context across
sleeping or soft-off states. If they lose their context across a sleeping or soft-off state, then platform boot firmware
resets the respective enable bit prior to passing control to the OS upon waking.
4.8. ACPI Register Model
89
