Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
4. If the device has a _LCK control method, OSPM runs this control method to unlock the device.
5. The OS looks to see what _EJx control methods are present for the device. If the removal event will cause the
system to switch to battery power (in other words, an undock) and the battery is low, dead, or not present, OSPM
uses the lowest supported sleep state _EJx listed; otherwise it uses the highest state _EJx. Having made this
decision, OSPM runs the appropriate _EJx control method to prepare the hardware for eject.
6. Warm removal requires that the system be put in a sleep state. If the removal will be a warm removal, OSPM
puts the system in the appropriate Sx state. If the removal will be a hot removal, OSPM skips to step 8, below.
7. For warm removal, the system is put in a sleep state. Hardware then uses any motors, and so on, to eject the
device. Immediately after ejection, the hardware transitions the system to S0. If the system was sleeping when
the eject notification came in, the OS returns the system to a sleeping state consistent with the user’s wake settings.
8. OSPM calls _STA to determine if the eject successfully occurred. (In this case, control methods do not need to
use the Notify(device,3) command to tell OSPM of the change in _STA) If there were any mechanical failures,
_STA returns 3: device present and not functioning, and OSPM informs the user of the problem.
ò Note
This mechanism is the same for removing a single device and for removing several devices, as in an undock.
ACPI does not disallow surprise-style removal of devices; however, this type of removal is not recommended because
system and data integrity cannot be guaranteed when a surprise-style removal occurs. Because the OS is not informed,
its device drivers cannot save data buffers and it cannot stop accesses to the device before the device is removed. To
handle surprise-style removal, a general-purpose event must be raised. Its associated control method must use the
Notify command to indicate which bus the device was removed from.
The device insertion and removal objects are listed in the table below.
Table 6.20: Device Insertion, Removal, and Status Objects
Object
Description
_EDL
Object that evaluates to a package of namespace references of device objects that depend on the
device containing _EDL.
_EJD
Object that evaluates to the name of a device object on which a device depends. Whenever the
named device is ejected, the dependent device must receive an ejection notification.
_EJx
Control method that ejects a device.
_LCK
Control method that locks or unlocks a device.
_OST
Control method invoked by OSPM to convey processing status to the platform.
_RMV
Object that indicates that the given device is removable.
_STA
Control method that returns a device’s status.
6.3.1 _EDL (Eject Device List)
This object evaluates to a package of namespace references containing the names of device objects that depend on the
device under which the _EDL object is declared. This is primarily used to support docking stations. Before the device
under which the _EDL object is declared may be ejected, OSPM prepares the devices listed in the _EDL object for
physical removal.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
6.3. Device Insertion, Removal, and Status Objects
417
