Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
For traditional ACPI platforms the event signaling follows the model described in Queuing the matching control method
for execution. The platform implements a general purpose event (GPE) for the error notification, and the GPE has an
associated control method.
An example of a GPE control method for error notification is the following:
Method (\_GPE._L08) { // GPE 8 level error notification
Notify (error_device, 0x80)
}
For HW-reduced ACPI platforms, the event signaling follows the model described in GPIO-signaled ACPI Events and
Interrupt-signaled ACPI events. The platform implements a notification of error events via interrupts or a GPIO pin.
In both cases these are associated with an _EVT control method.
An example of an _EVT control method for GPIO-based error notification is the following:
Method (\_EVT) { // GPIO pin 300 error notification
Switch (Arg1) {
Case (300) {
Notify (error_device, 0x80)
}
}
}
The overall flow when the platform uses the event notification is:
• The platform enumerates the error source with event as the notification method using the format in the Generic
Hardware Error Source Structure and the Generic Error Status Block.
• The platform surfaces an error device, PNP ID PNP0C33, to the OSPM
• When the platform is ready to report an error, the platform populates the error status block including the block
status field ( Generic Error Status Block ).
Traditional ACPI platforms signal the error using an SCI, on the appropriate GPE:
• The OSPM evaluates the GPE control method associated with this event as indicated on Queuing the matching
control method for execution
• OSPM responds to this notification by checking the error status block of all generic error sources with the SCI
Generic notification type to identify the source reporting the error
HW-reduced ACPI platforms signal the error using a GPIO interrupt or another interrupt declared under a generic event
device (Interrupt-signaled ACPI events ). In the case of GPIO-signaled events, an _AEI object lists the appropriate
GPIO pin, while for Interrupt-signaled events a _CRS object is used to list the interrupt:
• The OSPM evaluates the control method associated with this event as indicated in The Event Method for Handling
GPIO Signaled Events and The Event Method for Handling Interrupt Signaled Events.
• OSPM responds to this notification by checking the error status block of all generic error sources with the GPIO-
Signal notification or Interrupt-signaled notification types to identify the source reporting the error.
18.3. Error Source Discovery
859
