Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
architecture supports multiprocessor interrupt management (with symmetric interrupt distribution across all pro-
cessors), multiple I/O subsystem support, 8259A compatibility, and inter-processor interrupt support. The ar-
chitecture consists of local APICs commonly attached directly to processors and I/O APICs commonly in chip
sets.
ACPI Source Language (ASL)
The programming language equivalent for AML. ASL is compiled into AML images. The ASL statements are
defined in section 18, “ACPI Source Language (ASL) Reference.”
Address Range Scrub (ARS)
Process by which regions of memory can be scrubbed to look for memory locations that contain correctable or
uncorrectable errors.
BIOS
BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) is firmware that provides basic boot capabilities for a platform; it is used here
to refer specifically to traditional x86 BIOS, and not as a general term for all firmware, or a replacement term
for UEFI Core System BIOS. The ambiguity of this the term is what we are trying to remove. See also: Legacy
BIOS, System BIOS.
Boot Firmware
Generic term to describe any firmware on a platform used during the boot process. Use a more specific term, if
possible.
Component
Synonym for device. Please use the term “device” if possible.
Control Method
A control method is a definition of how the OS can perform a simple hardware task. For example, the OS
invokes control methods to read the temperature of a thermal zone. Control methods are written in an encoded
language called AML that can be interpreted and executed by the ACPI-compatible OS. An ACPI-compatible
system must provide a minimal set of control methods in the ACPI tables. The OS provides a set of well-defined
control methods that ACPI table developers can reference in their control methods. OEMs can support different
revisions of chip sets with one version of platform firmware by either including control methods in the platform
firmware that test configurations and respond as needed or including a different set of control methods for each
chip set revision.
Central Processing Unit (CPU) or Processor
The part of a platform that executes the instructions that do the work. An ACPI-compatible OS can balance
processor performance against power consumption and thermal states by manipulating the processor performance
controls. The ACPI specification defines a working state, labeled G0 (S0), in which the processor executes
instructions. Processor sleeping states, labeled C1 through C3, are also defined. In the sleeping states, the
processor executes no instructions, thus reducing power consumption and, potentially, operating temperatures.
The ACPI specification also defines processor performance states, where the processor (while in C0) executes
instructions, but with lower performance and (potentially) lower power consumption and operating temperature.
For more information, see Section 8.
A definition block contains information about hardware implementation and configuration details in the form of
data and control methods, encoded in AML. An OEM can provide one or more definition blocks in the ACPI
Tables. One definition block must be provided: the Differentiated Definition Block, which describes the base
system. Upon loading the Differentiated Definition Block, the OS inserts the contents of the Differentiated
Definition Block into the ACPI Namespace. Other definition blocks, which the OS can dynamically insert and
remove from the active ACPI Namespace, can contain references to the Differentiated Definition Block. For
more information, see Definition Blocks.
Device
A generic term used to refer to any computing, input/output or storage element, or any collection of computing,
input/output or storage elements, on a platform. An example of a device is a CPU, APU, embedded controller
(EC), BMC, Trusted Platform Module (TPM), graphics processing unit (GPU), network interface controller
2.1. General ACPI Terminology
17
