Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
10.5.1 Wireless Power Calibration Device
The following sections illustrate the operation and definition of the control method based Wireless Power Calibration
Device (WPC).
10.5.2 Wireless Power Calibration (_WPC)
The wireless power calibration can support the _WPC methods per participant device to calibrate power and notify the
participant device as the case me be. (i.e. Either direct proximity based power calibration or notification for interference
mitigation).
The _WPC method of the WPC device functions as a notifier to the participant wireless devices and indicates either
the messaging is for interference mitigation or direct power calibration.
Return Value:
0x00 - Direct Proximity Power Control
0x01 - Interference Mitigation Control
0x02 - Operational Band Change Control
0xFF - Reserved
10.5.3 Wireless Power Polling (_WPP)
This optional method evaluates the recommended polling frequency (in tenths of seconds) for this Wireless Power
Calibration device. A value of zero - or the absence of this object when other WPC objects are defined - indicates that
the OS does not need to poll the WPC device in order to detect meaningful changes in Wireless power calibration (the
hardware is capable of generating asynchronous notifications).
Argument:
None
Return:
An Integer containing the recommended polling frequency in tenths of seconds. A value of zero indicates
that polling is not required.
10.6 Wireless Power Calibration Event
To communicate the changes in wireless power transmission or interference mitigation to the OSPM. AML code should
issue a Notify (wpc_device, 0xXX) whenever a change in power calibration or interference mitigation is required to
happen. The OS receives this notification and may call the _WPD control method to determine the notification action
associated with it. Event generated may contain the information related to associate action that recipient devices need
to take.
WPD notification should occur whenever a change in power transmission needed either as a result of human proximity
or interference mitigation. The granularity of the interference mitigation and power transmission can be address as per
the operational device characteristics.
The WPC notification for interference mitigation will generate pairwise event among participant devices or multicast
is if the interference is observed in all the bands of operations involving the wireless devices.
10.6. Wireless Power Calibration Event
718
