Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 10.16 – continued from previous page
Element
Object Type
Description
Hysteresis Margin
Integer (DWORD)
The margin used by the BMC for hysteresis, in the unit of [Measure-
ment Unit / Measurement Sampling Time]. This indicates the mar-
gin built around the trip points and hardware limit notifications. This
margin prevents unnecessary notifies to the OSPM when the reading
is fluctuating very close to one of the trip points or the hardware
limit. 0xFFFFFFFF is returned if the information is unavailable.
Hardware Limit Is
Configurable
Integer (DWORD)
This boolean value represents whether hardware enforced limit is
configurable by the OSPM:
0x00000000 (zeros) - indicates the limit is read-only.
0xFFFFFFFF (ones) - indicates the limit is writable.
Minimum
Config-
urable
Hardware
Limit
Integer (DWORD)
The minimum value that can be configured into the hardware en-
forced limit, expressed in the units as specified by Measurement
Unit.
Maximum
Config-
urable
Hardware
Limit
Integer (DWORD)
The maximum value that can be configured into the hardware en-
forced limit, expressed in the units as specified by Measurement
Unit.
Model Number
String (ASCIIZ)
OEM-specific Power meter model number. This element is optional
and an empty string (a null character) should be used if this is not
supported.
Serial Number
String (ASCIIZ)
OEM-specific Power meter serial number. This element is optional
and an empty string (a null character) should be used if this is not
supported.
OEM Information
String (ASCIIZ)
OEM-specific information that the UI uses to display about the
Power meter device. This element is optional and a NULL string
should be used if this is not supported.
10.4.2 _PTP (Power Trip Points)
This object sets the upper and lower trip points for the power meter device. These 2 trip points define a hysteresis range
for which the OSPM can tolerate without re-reading the current measurement via _PMM. When the power meter draw
goes outside the range, a Notify(power_meter, 0x81) should be sent to notify the OSPM, at which time the OSPM
should re-evaluate _PMM and also set a pair of trip points around the newest reading. If the latest value measured by
the power meter is outside of the range defined by the trip points by the time _PTP is called, a result code is returned.
Arguments:(2)
Arg0 (Integer) : Upper Trip Point
Arg1 (Integer) : Lower Trip Point
Return Value:
An Integer containing the status of the operation:
• 0x00000000 - Success
• 0x00000001 - Failure to set trip points because latest measurement is out of range
• 0x00000002 - Failure to set trip points due to hardware timeout
• 0x00000003 - Failure to set trip points due to unknown hardware error
10.4. Power Meters
714
