Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Although the ACPI architecture reuses most legacy hardware as is, it does place restrictions on where and how the
programming model is generated. If used, all fixed hardware features are implemented as described in this specification
so that OSPM can directly access the fixed hardware feature registers.
Generic hardware features are manipulated by ACPI control methods residing in the ACPI Namespace. These interfaces
can be very flexible; however, their use is limited by the defined ACPI control methods (for more information, see ACPI-
Defined Devices and Device-Specific Objects). Generic hardware usually controls power planes, buffer isolation, and
device reset resources. Additionally, “child” interrupt status bits can be accessed via generic hardware interfaces;
however, they have a “parent” interrupt status bit in the GP_STS register. ACPI defines eight address spaces that may
be accessed by generic hardware implementations. These include:
• System I/O space
• System memory space
• PCI configuration space
• Embedded controller space
• System Management Bus (SMBus) space
• CMOS
• PCI BAR Target
• IPMI space
• Platform Communication Channel
Generic hardware power management features can be implemented accessing spare I/O ports residing in any of these
address spaces. The ACPI specification defines an optional embedded controller and SMBus interfaces needed to
communicate with these associated address spaces.
4.6.1 Hardware Reserved Bits
ACPI hardware registers are designed such that reserved bits always return zero, and data writes to them have no side
affects. OSPM implementations must write zeros to reserved bits in enable and status registers and preserve bits in
control registers, and they will treat these bits as ignored.
4.6.2 Hardware Ignored Bits
ACPI hardware registers are designed such that ignored bits are undefined and are ignored by software. Hardware-
ignored bits can return zero or one. When software reads a register with ignored bits, it masks off ignored bits prior to
operating on the result. When software writes to a register with ignored bit fields, it preserves the ignored bit fields.
4.6.3 Hardware Write-Only Bits
ACPI hardware defines a number of write-only control bits. These bits are activated by software writing a 1 to their
bit position. Reads to write-only bit positions generate undefined results. Upon reads to registers with write-only bits,
software masks out all write-only bits.
4.6. The ACPI Hardware Model
60
