Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Once the PCI Express Register Descriptors that match the PCIe Capability ID with the highest PCIe Capa-
bility Version supported by the Function are found, the OSPM shall use PCI Express Register Descriptors
among those with the highest VSEC Rev supported by the Function.
There may be more than one instance of an Extended Capability Structure that matches the indicated PCIe
Capability ID, PCIe Capability Version, PCIe Vendor ID, VSEC ID, and VSEC Rev. Continue to step 3 for
each such instance. If no Extended Capability Structures indicated by PCIe Capability ID, PCIe Capability
Version, PCIe Vendor ID, VSEC ID, and VSEC Rev are found, then start back at step 1 above for the next
Function in the scope of the _HPX method or the next PCI Express Register Descriptor if there are no more
Functions.
e. If Configuration Space Location is 4, then the Match Register Offset and Write Register Offset field’s byte
offset is relative to the starting offset of the Extended Capability Structure indicated by PCIe Capability ID,
PCIe Capability Version, PCIe Vendor ID, DVSEC ID, and DVSEC Rev.
In the event that there are more than one PCI Express Register Descriptors for a given PCIe Capability ID
with different PCIe Capability Versions, OSPM shall use the PCI Express Register Descriptors with the
highest PCIe Capability Version supported by the Function.
Once the PCI Express Register Descriptors that match the PCIe Capability ID with the highest PCIe Capa-
bility Version supported by the Function are found, the OSPM shall use PCI Express Register Descriptors
among those with the highest DVSEC Rev supported by the Function.
There may be more than one instance of an Extended Capability Structure that matches the indicated PCIe
Capability ID, PCIe Capability Version, PCIe Vendor ID, DVSEC ID, and DVSEC Rev. Continue to step
3 for each such instance. If no Extended Capability Structures indicated by PCIe Capability ID, PCIe
Capability Version, PCIe Vendor ID, DVSEC ID, and DVSEC Rev are found, then start back at step 1
above for the next Function in the scope of the _HPX method or the next PCI Express Register Descriptor
if there are no more Functions.
3. Check the Match Register to see if the Write Register should be updated.
a. Read the current value from the register indicated by the Match Register Offset.
b. Perform a bit-wise AND operation on the result of step 3a with the Match AND Mask.
c. Compare the result of step 3b with the Match Value. If they are equal then continue to step 4, else start
back at step 1 above for the next Function
d. In the scope of the _HPX method or the next PCI Express Register Descriptor if there are no more Functions.
4. Update the Write Register.
a. Read the current value from the register indicated by the Write Register Offset.
b. Perform a bit-wise AND operation on the result of step 4a with the Write AND Mask.
c. Perform a bit-wise OR operation on the result of step 4b with the Write OR Mask.
d. Override the computed settings from step 4c for any bits if deemed necessary. For example, if OSPM
is aware of an architected meaning for a bit that firmware considers to be RsvdP, OSPM may choose to
override the computed setting for that bit. Note that firmware sets the Write AND Mask to 1 and the Write
OR Mask to 0 for each bit that it considers to be RsvdP.
e. Write the result of step 4d back to the register indicated by the Write Register Offset.
Table 6.11: PCI Express Descriptor Setting Record Content
Field
Object Type
Definition
Header
- Type
Integer
0x03: Type 3 (PCI Express Descriptor) setting record.
continues on next page
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
393
