Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
8.4.6.1.1.6 Guaranteed Performance Register
Optional Attribute:
Read
Size:
8-32 bits
Guaranteed Performance Register conveys to OSPM a Guaranteed Performance level, which is the current maximum
sustained performance level of a processor, taking into account all known external constraints (power budgeting, thermal
constraints, AC vs DC power source, etc.). All processors are expected to be able to sustain their guaranteed perfor-
mance levels simultaneously. The guaranteed performance level is required to fall in the range [Lowest Performance,
Nominal performance], inclusive.
If this register is not implemented, OSPM assumes guaranteed performance is always equal to nominal performance.
Notify events of type 0x83 to the processor device object will cause OSPM to re-evaluate the Guaranteed Performance
Register. Changes to guaranteed performance should not be more frequent than once per second. If the platform is not
able to guarantee a given performance level for a sustained period of time (greater than one second), it should guarantee
a lower performance level and opportunistically enter the higher performance level as requested by OSPM and allowed
by current operating conditions.
8.4.6.1.1.7 Lowest Frequency and Nominal Frequency
Optional Register or DWORD Attribute:
Read
Size:
32 bits
If supported by the platform, Lowest Frequency and Nominal Frequency values convey are the lowest and nominal CPU
frequencies of the platform, respectively, in megahertz (MHz). They should correspond roughly to Lowest Performance
and Nominal Performance on the CPPC abstract performance scale but precise correlation is not guaranteed. See Lowest
Performance and Nominal Performance for more details.
These values should not be used for functional decision making or platform communication which are based on the
CPPC abstract performance scale. They are only intended to enable CPPC platforms to be backwards compatible with
OSs that report performance as CPU frequencies. The OS should use Lowest Frequency/Performance and Nominal
Frequency/Performance as anchor points to create a linear mapping of CPPC abstract performance to CPU frequency,
interpolating between Lowest and Nominal, and extrapolating from Nominal to Highest. Note that this mapping is not
guaranteed to be accurate since CPPC abstract performance is not required to be based purely on CPU frequency, but
it is better than no data if the OS must report performance as CPU frequency. Platforms should provide these values
when they must work with OSs which need to report CPU frequency, and there is no alternate mechanism to discover
this information.
8.4.6.1.2 Performance Controls
Under CPPC, OSPM has several performance settings it may use in conjunction to control/influence the performance
of the platform. These control inputs are outlined in the following figure.
OSPM may select any performance value within the continuous range of values supported by the platform. Internally,
the platform may implement a small number of discrete performance states and may not be capable of operating at
the exact performance level desired by OSPM. If a platform-internal state does not exist that matches OSPM’s desired
performance level, the platform should round desired performance as follows:
• If OSPM has selected a desired performance level greater than or equal to guaranteed performance, the platform
may round up or down. The result of rounding must not be less than guaranteed performance.
• If OSPM has selected a desired performance level less than guaranteed performance and a maximum performance
level not less than guaranteed performance, the platform must round up.
8.4. Declaring Processors
575
