Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Section 14.1.1 and Table 14.13).
3. The OSPM then clears the Command Complete bit. This step transfers ownership of the shared memory to the
platform. Note: clearing the Command Complete bit is done through the Command Complete update register,
which can differ in address from the Command Complete check register. In case the Command Complete update
register differs in address from the Command Complete check register, the platform must ensure that writes to the
Command Complete update register affect the Command Complete check register bits as specified. To reduce
platform complexity, it is therefore recommended that the Command Complete update register is the same as the
Command Complete check register. To clear the Command Complete bit, the content of the Command Complete
update register is combined through a bitwise AND with the Command Complete update preserve mask. The
result is then combined through a bitwise inclusive OR with the Command Complete update set mask and the
result is written back to the Command Complete update register. As a result, the bits which are neither set in
the Command Complete update set mask nor in the Command Complete update preserve mask are implicitly
cleared in the Command Complete update register.
4. OSPM rings the doorbell by performing a read/modify/write cycle on the specified doorbell register, preserving
and setting the bits specified in the preserve and write mask of the PCC subspace structure.
When the platform receives the command, it executes the following steps:
5. For robustness the platform might optionally check that the Command Complete bit is clear.
6. Processes the command.
7. Sets the command complete bit.
8. Triggers the platform interrupt indicated by the GSI of the subspace’s PCCT entry (see Table 14.7). This will
only occur if an interrupt has been requested in step 2, and interrupts are supported by the platform. A platform
can indicate support for interrupts through the Platform interrupt flag (See Table 14.2)
OSPM can detect command completion either by polling on the Command Complete bit or via platform interrupts.
When the OSPM detects that the command has completed, it proceeds with the following steps:
9. If necessary clears platform interrupt. This step applies if:
• Platform interrupts are supported by the platform on command completion (see Table 14.2).
• The interrupt was requested by the OSPM through the Notify on completion flag (see Table 14.9 and Table
14.13).
• The interrupt is described as being a level triggered through the Platform Interrupt flags, and Platform
Interrupt Ack register address, and associated masks are provided by the subspace PCCT entry (see table
entries for types 2 and 3).
10. If detecting command completion via interrupt, optionally checks that the command is complete. If the platform
interrupt is shared among multiple subspaces, this can be used to determine if the interrupt was targeted to this
subspace.
11. Processes the command response.
To ensure correct operation, it is necessary to ensure that all memory updates performed by the OSPM in step 2 are
observable by the platform before step 3 completes. Equally, all memory updates performed by the platform in step 6
must be observable by the OSPM before step 7 completes.
ò Note
For subspace types 0 to 2, all accesses to the Status Field must be made using interlocked operations, by both entities
sharing the subspace. Types 3-4 avoid this requirement. This requirement will be removed for subspace types 0 to
2 as part of deprecation of platform async notifications in a future spec revision (see Section 14.6).
14.5. Doorbell Protocol
811
