Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
16.2 Flushing Caches
Before entering the S1, S2 or S3 sleeping states, OSPM is responsible for flushing the system caches. ACPI provides
a number of mechanisms to flush system caches. These include:
• Using a native instruction (for example, the IA-32 architecture WBINVD instruction) to flush and invalidate
platform caches.
– WBINVD_FLUSH flag set (1) in the FADT indicates the system provides this support level.
• Using the IA-32 instruction WBINVD to flush but not invalidate the platform caches.
– WBINVD flag set (1) in the FADT indicates the system provides this support level.
The manual flush mechanism has two caveats:
• Largest cache is 1 MB in size (FLUSH_SIZE is a maximum value of 2 MB).
• No victim caches (for which the manual flush algorithm is unreliable).
Processors with built-in victim caches will not support the manual flush mechanism and are therefore required to support
the WBINVD mechanism to use the S2 or S3 state.
The manual cache-flushing mechanism relies on the two FADT fields:
• FLUSH_SIZE. Indicates twice the size of the largest cache in bytes.
• FLUSH_STRIDE. Indicates the smallest line size of the caches in bytes.
The cache flush size value is typically twice the size of the largest cache size, and the cache flush stride value is typically
the size of the smallest cache line size in the platform. OSPM will flush the system caches by reading a contiguous
block of memory indicated by the cache flush size.
16.3 Initialization
This section covers the initialization sequences for an ACPI platform. After a reset or wake from an S2, S3, or S4
sleeping state (as defined by the ACPI sleeping state definitions), the CPU will start execution from its boot vector.
At this point, the initialization software has many options, depending on what the hardware platform supports. This
section describes at a high level what should be done for these different options. The figure below illustrates the flow
of the boot-up software.
The processor will start executing at its power-on reset vector when waking from an S2, S3, or S4 sleeping state, during
a power-on sequence, or as a result of a hard or soft reset.
When executing from the power-on reset vector as a result of a power-on sequence, a hard or soft reset, or waking
from an S4 sleep state, the platform firmware performs complete hardware initialization; placing the system in a boot
configuration. The firmware then passes control to the operating system boot loader.
When executing from the power-on reset vector as a result of waking from an S2 or S3 sleep state, the platform firmware
performs only the hardware initialization required to restore the system to either the state the platform was in prior to the
initial operating system boot, or to the pre-sleep configuration state. In multiprocessor systems, non-boot processors
should be placed in the same state as prior to the initial operating system boot. The platform firmware then passes
control back to OSPM system by jumping to either the Firmware_Waking_Vector or the X_Firmware_Waking_Vector
in the FACS (see Firmware ACPI Control Structure (FACS) for more information). The contents of operating system
memory contents may not be changed during the S2 or S3 sleep state.
First, the platform runtime firmware determines whether this is a wake from S2 or S3 by examining the SLP_TYP
register value, which is preserved between sleeping sessions. If this is an S2 or S3 wake, then the platform runtime
firmware restores minimum context of the system before jumping to the waking vector. This includes:
16.2. Flushing Caches
832
