Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5.2.22.7 Autonomous Memory Power Management
Not all memory power management states require OSPM to actively transition a memory power node in and out of the
memory power state. Platforms may implement memory power states that are fully handled in hardware in terms of
entry and exit transition. In such fully autonomous states, the decision to enter the state is made by hardware based
on the utilization of the corresponding memory region and the decision to exit the memory power state is initiated in
response to a memory access targeted to the corresponding memory region.
The role of OSPM software in handling such autonomous memory power states is to vacate the use of such memory
regions when possible in order to allow hardware to effectively save power. No other OSPM initiated action is required
for supporting these autonomously power managed regions. However, it is not an error for OSPM explicitly initiates
a state transition to an autonomous entry memory power state through the MPST command interface. The platform
may accept the command and enter the state immediately in which case it must return command completion with
SUCCESS (00000b) status. If platform does not support explicit entry, it must return command completion with NOT
SUPPORTED (00010b) status.
5.2.22.8 Handling BIOS Reserved Memory
Platform firmware may have regions of memory reserved for its own use that are unavailable to OSPM for allocation.
Memory nodes where all (or a portion) of the memory is reserved by platform firmware may pose a problem for OSPM
because it does not know whether the platform firmware reserved memory is in use.
If the platform firmware reserved memory impacts the ability of the memory power node to enter memory power
state(s), the platform must indicate to OSPM (by clearing the Power Managed Flag - see Table 5.110 for details) that
this memory power node cannot be power managed. This allows OSPM to ignore such ranges from its memory power
optimization.
5.2.22.9 Interaction with NUMA processor and memory affinity tables
The memory power state table describes address range for each of the memory power nodes specified. OSPM can use
the address ranges information provided in MPST table and derive processor affinity of a given memory power node
based on the SRAT entries created by the platform boot firmware. The association of memory power node to proximity
domain can be used by OSPM to implement memory coalescing taking into account NUMA node topology for memory
allocation/release and manipulation of different page lists in memory management code (implementation specific).
An example of policy which can be implemented in OSPM for memory coalescing is: OSPM can prefer allocating
memory from local memory power nodes before going to remote memory power nodes. The later sections provide
sample NUMA configurations and explain the policy for various memory power nodes.
5.2.22.10 Interaction with Memory Hot Plug
The hot pluggable memory regions are described using memory device objects (see Section 9.11 ). The memory
address ranges of these memory device objects are defined using the _CRS method.
Scope (\_SB) {
Device (MEM0) {
Name (_HID, EISAID ("PNP0C80"))
Name (_CRS, ResourceTemplate () {
QWordMemory (
ResourceConsumer,
,
MinFixed,
MaxFixed,
(continues on next page)
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
205
