Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Start Dependent Function fields may be of length 0 or 1 bytes. The extra byte is optionally used to denote the compati-
bility or performance/robustness priority for the resource group following the Start DF tag. The compatibility priority
is a ranking of configurations for compatibility with legacy operating systems. This is the same as the priority used
in the PNPBIOS interface. For example, for compatibility reasons, the preferred configuration for COM1 is IRQ4,
I/O 3F8-3FF. The performance/robustness performance is a ranking of configurations for performance and robustness
reasons. For example, a device may have a high-performance, bus mastering configuration that may not be supported
by legacy operating systems. The bus-mastering configuration would have the highest performance/robustness priority
while its polled I/O mode might have the highest compatibility priority.
If the Priority byte is not included, this indicates the dependent function priority is ‘acceptable’. This byte is defined
as:
Table 6.31: Start Dependent Function Priority Byte Definition
Bits
Definition
1:0
Compatibility priority. Acceptable values are:
0 Good configuration: Highest Priority and preferred configuration
1 Acceptable configuration: Lower Priority but acceptable configuration
2 Sub-optimal configuration: Functional configuration but not optimal
3 Reserved
3:2
Performance/robustness. Acceptable values are:
0 Good configuration: Highest Priority and preferred configuration
1 Acceptable configuration: Lower Priority but acceptable configuration
2 Sub-optimal configuration: Functional configuration but not optimal
3 Reserved
7:4
Reserved (must be 0)
Notice that if multiple Dependent Functions have the same priority, they are further prioritized by the order in which
they appear in the resource data structure. The Dependent Function that appears earliest (nearest the beginning) in the
structure has the highest priority, and so on.
See StartDependentFn (Start Dependent Function Resource Descriptor Macro) for a description of the ASL macro that
creates a Start Dependent Function descriptor.
6.4.2.4 End Dependent Functions Descriptor
Type 0, Small Item Name 0x7, Length = 0
Only one End Dependent Function item is allowed per logical device. This enforces the fact that Dependent Functions
cannot be nested.
Table 6.32: End Dependent Functions Descriptor Definition
Offset
Field Name
Byte 0
Value = 0x38 (00111000B) - Type = 0, Small item name = 0x7, Length =0
6.4. Resource Data Types for ACPI
430
