Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
12.3.3 Burst Enable Embedded Controller, BE_EC (0x82)
This command byte allows OSPM to request dedicated attention from the embedded controller and (except for criti-
cal events) prevents the embedded controller from doing tasks other than receiving command and data from the host
processor (either the system management interrupt handler or OSPM). This command is an optimization that allows
the host processor to issue several commands back to back, in order to reduce latency at the embedded controller inter-
face. When the controller is in the burst mode, it should transition to the burst disable state if the host does not issue a
command within the following guidelines:
• First Access - 400 microseconds
• Subsequent Accesses - 50 microseconds each
• Total Burst Time - 1 millisecond
In addition, the embedded controller can disengage the burst mode at any time to process a critical event. If the
embedded controller disables burst mode for any reason other than the burst disable command, it should generate an
SCI to OSPM to indicate the change.
While in burst mode, the embedded controller follows these guidelines for OSPM driver:
SCIs are generated as normal, including IBF=0 and OBF=1.
Accesses should be responded to within 50 microseconds.
Burst mode is entered in the following manner:
OSPM driver writes the Burst Enable Embedded Controller, BE_EC (0x82) command byte and then the Embedded
Controller will prepare to enter the Burst mode. This includes processing any routine activities such that it should be
able to remain dedicated to OSPM interface for ~ 1 microsecond.
The Embedded Controller sets the Burst bit of the Embedded Controller Status Register, puts the Burst Acknowledge
byte (0x90) into the SCI output buffer, sets the OBF bit, and generates an SCI to signal OSPM that it is in Burst mode.
Burst mode is exited the following manner:
OSPM driver writes the Burst Disable Embedded Controller, BD_EC (0x83) command byte and then the Embedded
Controller will exit Burst mode by clearing the Burst bit in the Embedded Controller Status register and generating an
SCI signal (due to IBF=0).
The Embedded Controller clears the Burst bit of the Embedded Controller Status Register.
12.3.4 Burst Disable Embedded Controller, BD_EC (0x83)
This command byte releases the embedded controller from a previous burst enable command and allows it to resume
normal processing. This command is sent by OSPM or system management interrupt handler after it has completed its
entire queued command sequence to the embedded controller.
12.3.5 Query Embedded Controller, QR_EC (0x84)
OSPM driver sends this command when the SCI_EVT flag in the EC_SC register is set. When the embedded controller
has detected a system event that must be communicated to OSPM, it first sets the SCI_EVT flag in the EC_SC register,
generates an SCI, and then waits for OSPM to send the query (QR_EC) command. OSPM detects the embedded
controller SCI, sees the SCI_EVT flag set, and sends the query command to the embedded controller. Upon receipt of
the QR_EC command byte, the embedded controller places a notification byte with a value between 0-255, indicating
the cause of the notification. The notification byte indicates which interrupt handler operation should be executed by
OSPM to process the embedded controller SCI. The query value of zero is reserved for a spurious query result and
indicates “no outstanding event.”
12.3. Embedded Controller Command Set
766
