Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
6. The proper general-purpose register bits are returned to disabled.
Note: If _Lxx or _Exx is defined targeting the same GPE vector utilized by _PRW, OSPM shall use the dynamic GPE
Enable behavior previously described in this section (Section 7.3.13). This will override the ‘always enabled’ behavior
described in Section 5.6.4.1. OSPM implementations conforming to this behavior must request and be granted control
via platform _OSC for the ‘Dynamic GPE Cap’ capability described in Section 6.2.12.2.
If OSPM intends to utilize the Dynamic GPE Cap _OSC bit, the following must be adhered to during boot:
OSPM shall avoid enabling a GPE until after the platform _OSC has been invoked and the ‘Dynamic GPE
Cap’ has been granted or not granted.
If the ‘Dynamic GPE Cap’ capability is not or has not yet been granted by platform FW, OSPM handling of GPE enable
in this scenario is undefined and OSPM-specific.
The system sleeping state specified must be a state that the system supports (in other words, a corresponding \_Sx object
must exist in the namespace).
_PRW must return the same data each time it is evaluated. All power resources referenced must exist in the namespace.
7.3.14 _PSW (Power State Wake)
In addition to the _PRW control method, this control method can be used to enable or disable the device’s ability to
wake a sleeping system. This control method can only access Operation Regions that are either always available while
in a system working state or that are available when the Power Resources referenced by the _PRW object are all ON.
For example, do not put a power plane control for a bus controller within configuration space located behind the bus.
ò Note
Regarding compatability–The _PSW method was deprecated in ACPI 3.0. OSPM must use _DSW if it is present.
Otherwise, it may use _PSW.
Arguments: (1)
Arg0 - An Integer containing a wake capability control:
0 - Disable the device’s wake capabilities
1 - Enable the device’s wake capabilities
Return Value
None
7.3.15 _IRC (In Rush Current)
Indicates that this device can cause a significant in-rush current when transitioning to state D0.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
None
The presence of this object signifies that transitioning the device to its D0 state causes a system-significant in-rush cur-
rent load. In general, such operations need to be serialized such that multiple operations are not attempted concurrently.
Within ACPI, this type of serialization can be accomplished with the ResourceOrder parameter of the device’s Power
7.3. Device Power Management Objects
501
