Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 18.26: Injection Instruction Entry
Field
Byte
length
Byte
offset
Description
Injection
Action
1
0
The injection action that this instruction is a part of. See the Error Injection
Actions table for supported injection actions.
Instruction
1
1
Identifies the instruction to execute. See the Injection Instructions table
for a list of valid instructions.
Flags
1
2
Flags that qualify the instruction.
Reserved
1
3
Must be zero.
Register
Region
12
4
The Generic Address Structure is used to describe the address and bit.
Address_Space_ID must be 0 (System Memory) or 1 (System IO). This
constraint is an attempt to ensure that the registers are accessible in the
presence of hardware error conditions.
Value
8
16
This is the value field that is used by the instruction READ or
WRITE_REGISTER_VALUE.
Mask
8
24
The bit mask required to obtain the bits corresponding to the injection
instruction in a given bit range defined by the register region.
Register Region is described as a generic address structure. This structure describes the physical address of a register
as well as the bit range that corresponds to a desired region of the register. The bit range is defined as the smallest set
of consecutive bits that contains every bit in the register that is associated with the injection Instruction. If bits [6:5]
and bits [3:2] all correspond to an Injection Instruction, the bit range for that instruction would be [6:2].
Because a bit range could contain bits that do not pertain to a particular injection Instruction (i.e. bit 4 in the example
above), a bit mask is required to distinguish all the bits in the region that correspond to the instruction. The Mask
field is defined to be this bit mask with a bit set to a ‘1’ for each bit in the bit range (defined by the register region)
corresponding to the Injection Instruction. Note that bit 0 of the bit mask corresponds to the lowest bit in the bit range.
In the example used above, the mask would be 11011b or 0x1B.
Table 18.27: Instruction Flags
Value
Name
Description
0x01
PRESERVE_REGISTER
For WRITE_REGISTER and WRITE_REGISTER_VALUE in-
structions, this flag indicates that bits within the register that are not
being written must be preserved rather than destroyed.
For READ_REGISTER instructions, this flag is ignored.
18.6.3 Injection Instructions
The table below lists the supported Injection Instructions for Injection Instruction Entries.
Table 18.28: Injection Instructions
Op-
code
Instruction name
Description
0x00
READ_REGISTER
A READ_REGISTER instruction reads the value from the specified
register region.
continues on next page
18.6. Error Injection
879
