Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.242: Fan Device Notification Values
Hex value
Description
0x80
Low Fan Speed. Used to notify OSPM of a low (errant) fan speed. Causes OSPM to re-evaluate
the _FSL object.
0x81-0xBF
Reserved
Table 5.243: Memory Device Notification Values
Hex value
Description
0x80
Memory Bandwidth Low Threshold crossed. Used to notify OSPM that bandwidth of memory
described by the memory device has been reduced by the platform to less than the low memory
bandwidth threshold.
0x81
Memory Bandwidth High Threshold crossed. Used to notify OSPM that bandwidth of memory
described by the memory device has been increased by the platform to greater than or equal to the
high memory bandwidth threshold.
0x82-0xBF
Reserved
5.6.7 Device Class-Specific Objects
Most device objects are controlled through generic objects and control methods and they have generic device IDs.
These generic objects, control methods, and device IDs are specified in Section6, through Section11 . Section5.6.8,
“Predefined ACPI Names for Objects, Methods, and Resources,” lists all the generic objects and control methods
defined in this specification.
However, certain integrated devices require support for some device-specific ACPI controls. This section lists these
devices, along with the device-specific ACPI controls that can be provided.
Some of these controls are for ACPI-aware devices and as such have Plug and Play IDs that represent these devices.
The table below lists the Plug and Play IDs defined by the ACPI specification.
ò Note
Plug and Play IDs that are not defined by the ACPI specification are defined and described in the “Links to ACPI-
Related Documents” (http://uefi.org/acpi) under the heading “Legacy PNP Guidelines”.
Table 5.244: ACPI Device IDs
Plug and Play ID
Description
PNP0C08
ACPI. Not declared in ACPI as a device. This ID is used by OSPM for the hardware re-
sources consumed by the ACPI fixed register spaces, and the operation regions used by AML
code. It represents the core ACPI hardware itself.
PNP0A05
Generic Container Device. A device whose settings are totally controlled by its ACPI
resource information, and otherwise needs no device or bus-specific driver support. This was
originally known as Generic ISA Bus Device. This ID should only be used for containers that
do not produce resources for consumption by child devices. Any system resources claimed
by a PNP0A05 device’s _CRS object must be consumed by the container itself.
continues on next page
5.6. ACPI Event Programming Model
341
