Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
0 - The current reading is below the supported range or sensitivity of the sensor.
Ones (-1) - The current reading is above the supported range or sensitivity of the sensor.
Other values - The current ambient light brightness in lux (lumens per square meter)
9.3.3 _ALT (Ambient Light Temperature)
This optional control method returns the current ambient light color temperature reading in degrees Kelvin (°K). Lower
color temperatures imply warmer light (emphasis on yellow and red); higher color temperatures imply a colder light
(emphasis on blue). This value can be used to gauge various properties of the lighting environment - for example, the
type of light source. Expected values range from ~1500°K for candlelight, ~3000°K for a 200-Watt incandescent bulb,
and ~5500°K for full sunlight on a summer day - although readings may vary depending on the location of the sensor
to the light source. Special values are reserved to indicate out of range conditions (see below).
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the ambient light temperature in degrees Kelvin
0 - The current reading is below the supported range or sensitivity of the sensor
Ones (-1) - The current reading is above the supported range or sensitivity of the sensor
Other values - The current ambient light temperature in degrees Kelvin
9.3.4 _ALC (Ambient Light Color Chromaticity)
This optional control method returns the current ambient light color chromaticity readings per the CIE Yxy color model.
The x and y (chromaticity) coordinates are specified using a fixed 10-4 notation due to the lack of floating point values
in ACPI. Valid values are within the range 0 (0x0000) through 1 (0x2710). A single 32-bit integer value is used, where
the x coordinate is stored in the high word and the y coordinate in the low word. For example, the value 0x0C370CDA
would be used to specify the white point for the CIE Standard Illuminant D65 (a standard representation of average
daylight) with x = 0.3127 and y = 0.3290. Special values are reserved to indicate out of range conditions (see below).
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the ambient light temperature in degrees Kelvin
0 - The current reading is below the supported range or sensitivity of the sensor
Ones (-1) - The current reading is above the supported range or sensitivity of the sensor
Other values - The current ambient light color chromaticity x and y coordinate values, per the
CIE Yxy color model
9.3. Ambient Light Sensor Device
597
