Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
9.3.8 Relationship to Backlight Control Methods
The Brightness Control Levels (_BCL) method - described in section 0 - can be used to indicate user-selectable display
brightness levels. The information provided by this method indicates the available display brightness settings, the
recommended default brightness settings for AC and DC operation, and the absolute maximum and minimum brightness
settings. These values indirectly influence the operation of the OSPM’s ALS policy.
Display brightness adjustments produced by ALS policy are relative to the current user backlight setting, and the result-
ing absolute value must be mapped (rounded) to one of the levels specified in _BCL. This introduces the requirement
for fine-grain display brightness control in order to achieve a responsive ALS system - which typically materializes as a
need for additional entries in the _BCL list in order to provide reasonable resolution to the OS (e.g. 3-10% granularity).
Note that user brightness controls (e.g. hotkeys) are not required to make use of all levels specified in _BCL.
9.4 Control Method Lid Device
Platforms containing lids convey lid status (open / closed) to OSPM using a Control Method Lid Device.
To implement a control method lid device, AML code should issue a Notify(lid_device, 0x80) for the device whenever
the lid status has changed. The _LID control method for the lid device must be implemented to report the current state
of the lid as either opened or closed.
The lid device can support _PRW and _PSW methods to select the wake functions for the lid when the lid transitions
from closed to opened.
The Plug and Play ID of an ACPI control method lid device is PNP0C0D.
Table 9.3: Control Method Lid Device
Object
Description
_LID
Returns the current status of the lid.
9.4.1 _LID
Evaluates to the current status of the lid.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the current lid status:
0 - The lid is closed Non-zero - The lid is open
9.4. Control Method Lid Device
602
