Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 18.12: Generic Error Data Entry
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Section Type
16
0
Identifies the type of error data in this entry. See the Section Type field of
the Section Descriptor in the UEFI Specification .
Error Severity
4
16
Identifies the severity of the reported error. 0 - Recoverable 1 - Fatal 2 -
Corrected 3 - None
Revision
2
20
The revision number is 0x300. See the Revision field of the Section De-
scriptor in the UEFI Specification .
Validation
Bits
1
22
Identifies whether certain fields are populated with valid data. This field
indicates the validity of the following fields:
Bit 0 - If 1, the FRUId field contains valid information.
Bit 1 - If 1, the FRUString FRU Text field contains valid information.
Bit 2 - If 1, the TimeStamp field contains valid information.
Bit 7:3 - Reserved, must be zero..
Flags
1
23
Flags describing the error data. See the Flags field of the Section Descrip-
tor in the UEFI Specification appendix titled “Common Platform Error
Record” .
Error
Data
Length
4
24
Length in bytes of the generic error data. It is valid to have a Data Length
of zero. This would be used for instance in firmware-first error handling
where the platform reports errors to the OSPM using NMI.
FRU Id
16
28
Identifies the Field Replaceable Unit. See the FRU Id field of the Section
Descriptor in the UEFI Specification appendix titled “Common Platform
Error Record”.
FRU Text
20
44
Text field describing the Field Replaceable Unit. See the FRU Text field of
the Section Descriptor in the UEFI Specification appendix titled “Common
Platform Error Record”.
Timestamp
8
64
If marked valid per the validation bits field, this field correlates to the time
when the error information was collected by the system software and may
not necessarily represent the time of the error event. The timestamp con-
tains the local time in BCD format. See the Timestamp field of the Error
Record Header section in the EFI Specification appendix titled “Common
Platform Error Record “.
Data
Error
Data
Length
64
Generic error data. The information contained in this field must match
one of the error record section types defined in the UEFI Specification
appendix, “Common Platform Error Record”.
18.3.2.7.2 Event Notification For Generic Error Sources
An event notification is recommended for corrected errors where latency in processing error reports is not critical to
proper system operation. The implementation of Event notification requires the platform to define a device with PNP
ID PNP0C33 in the ACPI namespace, referred to as the error device. This device is used to notify the OSPM that
a generic error source is reporting an error. Since multiple generic error sources can use event notification, it is the
responsibility of the OSPM to scan the list of these generic error sources and check the block status field (Generic
Error Status Block) to identify the source that reported the error.
The platform is responsible for providing a control method that issues a NOTIFY on the error device (PNP0C33), with
a notification code of type 0x80.
18.3. Error Source Discovery
858
