Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
7.4.2.3 System \_S2 State
The S2 sleeping state is logically deeper than the S1 state and is assumed to conserve more power. The behavior of this
state is defined as:
• The processors are not executing instructions. The processor-complex context is not maintained.
• Dynamic RAM context is maintained.
• Power Resources are in a state compatible with the system S2 state. All Power Resources that supply a System-
Level reference of S0 or S1 are in the OFF state.
• Devices states are compatible with the current Power Resource states. Only devices that solely reference Power
Resources that are in the ON state for a given device state can be in that device state. In all other cases, the device
is in the D3 (off) state.
• Devices that are enabled to wake the system and that can do so from their current device state can initiate a
hardware event that transitions the system state to S0. This transition causes the processor to begin execution at
its boot location. The platform runtime firmware performs initialization of core functions as needed to exit an
S2 state and passes control to the firmware resume vector. See Platform Boot Firmware Initialization of Memory
for more details on platform firmware initialization.
Because the processor context can be lost while in the S2 state, the transition to the S2 state requires that the operating
software flush all dirty cache to dynamic RAM (DRAM).
7.4.2.4 System \_S3 State
The S3 state is logically deeper than the S2 state and is assumed to conserve more power. The behavior of this state is
defined as follows:
• The processors are not executing instructions. The processor-complex context is not maintained.
• Dynamic RAM context is maintained.
• Power Resources are in a state compatible with the system S3 state. All Power Resources that supply a System-
Level reference of S0, S1, or S2 are in the OFF state.
• Devices states are compatible with the current Power Resource states. Only devices that solely reference Power
Resources that are in the ON state for a given device state can be in that device state. In all other cases, the device
is in the D3 (off) state.
• Devices that are enabled to wake the system and that can do so from their current device state can initiate a
hardware event that transitions the system state to S0. This transition causes the processor to begin execution at
its boot location. The platform runtime firmware performs initialization of core functions as necessary to exit an
S3 state and passes control to the firmware resume vector. See Platform Boot Firmware Initialization of Memory
for more details on platform firmware initialization.
From the software viewpoint, this state is functionally the same as the S2 state. The operational difference can be that
some Power Resources that could be left ON to be in the S2 state might not be available to the S3 state. As such,
additional devices may need to be in a deeper state for S3 than S2. Similarly, some device wake events can function in
S2 but not S3.
Because the processor context can be lost while in the S3 state, the transition to the S3 state requires that the operating
software flush all dirty cache to DRAM.
7.4. OEM-Supplied System-Level Control Methods
511
