Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
State
Status
Definition
D0
Required
Card status change interrupts are fully functional. Card functional interrupts are
fully functional. Controller context (for example, memory, I/O windows) is fully
functional. Controller interface is fully functional (processor can access cards).
Power to cards (slots) is available (may be on or off under software control). The
controller is at its highest power consumption level. Bus command response time
is at its fastest level. PC Cards can be in any Dx power state (D0-D3). Note:
In D0 state, CSTSCHG interrupts can be passed to a system from a powered
down PC Card (for more detail, refer to section 5.2.11.2 of PC Card Standard,
Electrical Specification).
D1
Optional
Card status change interrupts are disabled. CSTSCHG interrupt events are still
detectable by the controller and cause the bus-specific wake signal to be asserted
if wake is enabled on the controller. Card functional interrupts are disabled.
Controller context is preserved (all register contents must be maintained but
memory and I/O windows need not be functional). Controller interface is non-
functional (processor cannot access cards). Power to cards (slots) is available
(may be on or off; retains power setting it had at time of entry to D1). Power-
level consumption for the controller is high but less than D0. The time required
to restore the function from the D1 state to the D0 state is quicker than resump-
tion from D3. Bus command response time is equal to or slower than in D0. PC
Cards can be in the D1, D2, or D3 power states (not D0). Note: In D1 state,
CSTSCHG interrupts can be passed to a system from a powered-down PC Card
(for more detail, refer to section 5.2.11.2 of PC Card Standard, Electrical Spec-
ification).
D2
Optional
Functionally the same as D1 (may be implemented instead of D1 in order to
allow bus and/or system to enter a lower-power state).
D3
Required
Card status change interrupt: Disabled and need not be detected. Card functional
interrupt: Disabled and need not be detected. Controller context (for example,
memory, I/O windows): Lost. Controller interface: Non-functional (processor
can not access cards). Clock to controller: Off. Power to cards (slots): Off (card
context lost). Note: If Vcc is removed (for example, PCI Bus B3) while the
device is in the D3 state, a bus-specific reset (for example, PCI RST#) must be
asserted when power is restored and functions will then return to the D0 state
with a full power-on reset sequence. Whenever the transition from D3 to D0 is
initiated through assertion of a bus-specific reset, the power-on defaults will be
restored to the function by hardware just as at initial power up. The function
must then be fully initialized and reconfigured by software.
A.10.2 PC Card Controller Device Power Management Policy
The PC Card controller is a bus controller. As such, its power state is dependent on the devices plugged into the bus
(child devices). OSPM will track the state of all devices on the bus and will put the bus into the best possible power
state based on the current device requirements on that bus. For example, if the PC Card cards are all in the D1 state,
OSPM will put the PC Card controller in the D1 state.
Table A-21: PC Card Controller Device Power Management Policy
A.10. PC Card Controller Device Class
1109
