Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Name (BUF6, Buffer(32} {}) // Length = 32
If neither the BufferSize nor the Initializer are specified, a buffer of zero length is created:
Name (BUF7, Buffer() {}) // Length = 0
19.6.11 Case (Expression for Conditional Execution)
Syntax:
Case ( Value ) {TermList}
Arguments
Value specifies an Integer, Buffer, String or Package object. TermList is a sequence of executable ASL expressions.
Description
Execute code based upon the value of a Switch statement.
If the Case Value is an Integer, Buffer or String, then control passes to the statement that matches the value of the
enclosing Switch (Value). If the Case value is a Package, then control passes if any member of the package matches
the Switch (Value). The Switch CaseTermList can include any number of Case instances, but no two Case Values (or
members of a Value, if Value is a Package) within the same Switch statement can contain the same value.
Execution of the statement body begins at the start of the TermList and proceeds until the end of the TermList body or
until a Break or Continue operator transfers control out of the body.
19.6.12 Concatenate (Concatenate Data)
Syntax:
Concatenate ( Source1, Source2, Result )
=> Buffer or String
Arguments
Source1 and Source2 must each evaluate to any valid ACPI object. For the basic data object types (Integer, String, or
Buffer), the value of the object is used in the concatenation. For all other object types (see table below), a string object
is created that contains the name (type) of the object. This string object is then concatenated according to the rules in
Concatenate Data Types.
The data type of Source1 dictates the required type of Source2 and the type of the result object. Source2 is implicitly
converted if necessary (and possible) to match the type of Source1 .
Description
Source2 is concatenated to Source1 and the result data is optionally stored into Result.
Table 19.30: Concatenate Data Types
Source1
Data
Type
Source2 Data Type (Converted Type)
Result Data Type
Integer
Integer/String/Buffer →Integer
Buffer
String
Integer/String/Buffer /All other types →String
String
Buffer
Integer/String/Buffer /All other types →Buffer
Buffer
continues on next page
19.6. ASL Operator Reference
956
