Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
1.8 Target Audience
This specification is intended for the following users:
• OEMs building hardware containing ACPI-compatible interfaces
• Operating system and device driver developers
• All platform system firmware developers
• CPU and chip set vendors
• Peripheral vendors
1.9 Document Organization
The ACPI specification document is organized into the following four parts:
• The first part of the specification (chapters 1 through 3) introduces ACPI and provides an executive overview.
• The second part (chapters 4 and 5) defines the ACPI hardware and software programming models.
• The third part (chapters 6 through 17) specifies the ACPI implementation details; this part of the specification is
primarily for developers.
• The fourth part (chapters 18 and 19) is technical reference material: chapter 18 is the ACPI Source Language
(ASL) reference, which is referenced by many other sections in this specification.
• Appendices contain device class specifications, describing power management characteristics of specific classes
of devices, and device class-specific ACPI interfaces.
1.9.1 ACPI Introduction and Overview
The first three sections of the specification provide an executive overview of ACPI.
Chapter 1: Introduction
Discusses the purpose and goals of the specification, presents an overview of the ACPI-compatible system archi-
tecture, specifies the minimum requirements for an ACPI-compatible system, and provides references to related
specifications.
Chapter 2: Definition of Terms
Defines the key terminology used in this specification. In particular, the global system states (Mechanical Off,
Soft Off, Sleeping, Working, and Non-Volatile Sleep) are defined in this Chapter, along with the device power
state definitions: Off (D3), D3hot, D2, D1, and Fully-On (D0). Device and processor performance states (P0,
P1, ...Pn) are also discussed.
Chapter 3: ACPI Overview
Gives an overview of the ACPI specification in terms of the functional areas covered by the specification: system
power management, device power management, processor power management, Plug and Play, handling of system
events, battery management, and thermal management.
1.8. Target Audience
12
