Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
3: When Bit [31] is 0, no assumptions can be made on which ID will be used for any particular display type. Contact
the Video Chip vendor for details of the ID scheme employed.
4: In certain cases multiple Displays Ports may be combined to increase bandwidth for a particular Display in
higher-resolution modes. In this situation, the Display Type and Port Number should remain the same in order to
retain a consistent ID for the same device, regardless of the selected display mode.
5: In certain cases, more than one type of display (and connector) may be supportable on a single Port (e.g. DVI +
TV + CRT on a single Display Encoder device), while only one display is selectable at any time. In this case, the
Port Number field of the ID may be the same as other Display IDs, however the other fields (e.g. Display Type)
provide uniqueness.
B.4.3 _ROM (Get ROM Data)
This method is used to get a copy of the display devices’ ROM data. This method is required when the ROM image is
stored in a proprietary format such as stored in the platform firmware ROM. This method is not necessary if the ROM
image can be read through a standard PCI interface (using ROM BAR). If _ROM is present, it is preferred over the
image read through the standard PCI interface, in order to allow platform runtime firmware to provide re-configured
ROM data via the method.
The video driver can use the data returned by this method to program the device. The format of the data returned by
this function is a large linear buffer limited to 4 KB. The content of the buffer is defined by the graphics independent
hardware vendor (IHV) that builds this device. The format of this ROM data will traditionally be compatible with the
ROM format of the normal PCI video card, which will allow the video driver to program its device, independently of
motherboard versus add-in card issues.
The data returned by the _ROM method is implementation-specific data that the video driver needs to program the
device. This method is defined to provide this data as motherboard devices typically don’t have a dedicated option
ROM. This method will allow a video driver to get the key implementation specific data it needs so that it can fully
control and program the device without platform runtime firmware support.
Arguments:(2)
Arg0 - An Integer containing the offset of the display device ROM data
Arg1 - An Integer containing the size of the buffer to fill in (up to 4K).
Return Value:
A Buffer containing the requested ROM data
B.4.4 _GPD (Get POST Device)
This method is required if the _VPO method is implemented.
This method is used as a mechanism for the OS to query a CMOS value that determines which VGA device will be
posted at boot. A zero return value indicates the motherboard VGA will be posted on the next boot, a 1 indicates a PCI
VGA device will be posted, and a 2 indicates an AGP VGA device will be posted.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing encoded post information (32 bits valid):
B.4. Display-specific Methods
1120
