Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
4.8.1.6 General-Purpose Event Registers
The general-purpose event registers contain the root level events for all generic features. To facilitate the flexibil-
ity of partitioning the root events, ACPI provides for two different general-purpose event blocks: GPE0_BLK and
GPE1_BLK. These are separate register blocks and are not a register grouping, because there is no need to maintain an
orthogonal bit arrangement. Also, each register block contains its own length variable in the FADT, where GPE0_LEN
and GPE1_LEN represent the length in bytes of each register block.
Each register block contains two registers of equal length: GPEx_STS and GPEx_EN (where x is 0 or 1). The length of
the GPE0_STS and GPE0_EN registers is equal to half the GPE0_LEN. The length of the GPE1_STS and GPE1_EN
registers is equal to half the GPE1_LEN. If a generic register block is not supported then its respective block pointer
and block length values in the FADT table contain zeros. The GPE0_LEN and GPE1_LEN do not need to be the same
size.
4.8.2 Fixed Hardware Features
This section describes the fixed hardware features defined by ACPI.
4.8.2.1 Power Management Timer
The ACPI specification defines an optional power management timer that provides an accurate time value that can
be used by system software to measure and profile system idleness (along with other tasks). The power management
timer provides an accurate time function while the system is in the working (G0) state. To allow software to extend the
number of bits in the timer, the power management timer generates an interrupt when the last bit of the timer changes
(from 0 to 1 or 1 to 0). ACPI supports either a 24-bit or 32-bit power management timer. The PM Timer is accessed
directly by OSPM, and its programming model is contained in fixed register space. The programming model can be
partitioned in up to three different register blocks. The event bits are contained in the PM1_EVT register grouping,
which has two register blocks, and the timer value can be accessed through the PM_TMR_BLK register block. A block
diagram of the power management timer is illustrated in the following figure.
Fig. 4.7: Power Management Timer
The power management timer is a 24-bit or 32-bit fixed rate free running count-up timer that runs off a 3.579545 MHz
clock. The ACPI OS checks the FADT to determine whether the PM Timer is a 32-bit or 24-bit timer. The programming
model for the PM Timer consists of event logic, and a read port to the counter value. The event logic consists of an
event status and enable bit. The status bit is set any time the last bit of the timer (bit 23 or bit 31) goes from set to
clear or clear to set. If the TMR_EN bit is set, then the setting of the TMR_STS will generate an ACPI event in the
PM1_EVT register grouping (referred to as PMTMR_PME in the diagram). The event logic is only used to emulate a
larger timer.
OSPM uses the read-only TMR_VAL field (in the PM TMR register grouping) to read the current value of the timer.
OSPM never assumes an initial value of the TMR_VAL field; instead, it reads an initial TMR_VAL upon loading
OSPM and assumes that the timer is counting. It is allowable to stop the Timer when the system transitions out of the
working (G0/S0) state. The only timer reset requirement is that the timer functions while in the working state.
4.8. ACPI Register Model
68
