Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
4.8.4.1.1 General-Purpose Event 0 Register Block
This register block consists of two registers: The GPE0_STS and the GPE0_EN registers. Each register’s length
is defined to be half the length of the GPE0 register block, and is described in the ACPI FADT’s GPE0_BLK and
GPE0_BLK_LEN operators. OSPM owns the general-purpose event resources and these bits are only manipulated by
OSPM; AML code cannot access the general-purpose event registers.
It is envisioned that chipsets will contain GPE event registers that provide GPE input pins for various events.
The platform designer would then wire the GPEs to the various value-added event hardware and the AML code would
describe to OSPM how to utilize these events. As such, there will be the case where a platform has GPE events that
are not wired to anything (they are present in the chip set), but are not utilized by the platform and have no associated
AML code. In such, cases these event pins are to be tied inactive such that the corresponding SCI status bit in the GPE
register is not set by a floating input pin.
4.8.4.1.1.1 General-Purpose Event 0 Status Register
Register Location: <GPE0_STS> System I/O or System Memory Space
Default Value: 00h
Attribute: Read/Write
Size: GPE0_BLK_LEN/2
The general-purpose event 0 status register contains the general-purpose event status bits in bank zero of the general-
purpose registers. Each available status bit in this register corresponds to the bit with the same bit position in the
GPE0_EN register. Each available status bit in this register is set when the event is active, and can only be cleared by
software writing a “1” to its respective bit position. For the general-purpose event registers, unimplemented bits are
ignored by OSPM.
Each status bit can optionally wake the system if asserted when the system is in a sleeping state with its respective
enable bit set. OSPM accesses GPE registers through byte accesses (regardless of their length).
4.8.4.1.1.2 General-Purpose Event 0 Enable Register
Register Location: <GPE0_EN> System I/O or System Memory Space
Default Value: 00h
Attribute: Read/Write
Size: GPE0_BLK_LEN/2
The general-purpose event 0 enable register contains the general-purpose event enable bits. Each available enable bit in
this register corresponds to the bit with the same bit position in the GPE0_STS register. The enable bits work similarly
to how the enable bits in the fixed-event registers are defined: When the enable bit is set, then a set status bit in the
corresponding status bit will generate an SCI bit. OSPM accesses GPE registers through byte accesses (regardless of
their length).
4.8. ACPI Register Model
90
