CHAPTER
TEN
POWER SOURCE AND POWER METER DEVICES
This section specifies the battery, AC adapter, and power source device objects OSPM uses to manage power resources,
as well as the power meter device objects OSPM uses to measure power consumption.
A battery device is required to either have a Smart Battery subsystem or a Control Method Battery interface as described
in this section. OSPM is required to be able to connect and manage a battery on either of these interfaces. This section
describes these interfaces.
In the case of a compatible ACPI Smart Battery Table, the Definition Block needs to include a Bus/Device package for
the SMB-HC. This will install an OS-specific driver for the SMBus, which in turn will locate the components of the
Smart Battery subsystem. In addition to the battery or batteries, the Smart Battery subsystem includes a charger and a
manager device to handle subsystems with multiple batteries.
The Smart Battery System Manager is one implementation of a manager device that is capable of arbitrating among
the available power sources (AC power and batteries) for a system. It provides a superset of the Smart Battery Selector
functionality, such as safely responding to power events (AC versus battery power), inserting and removing batteries
and notifying the OS of all such changes. Additionally, the Smart Battery System Manager is capable of handling
configurations including simultaneous charging and discharging of multiple batteries. Unlike the Smart Battery Selec-
tor that shares responsibility for configuring the battery system with OSPM, the Smart Battery System Manager alone
controls the safe configuration of the battery system and simply issues status changes to OSPM when the configuration
changes. Smart Battery System Manager is the recommended solution for handling multiple-battery systems.
A Power Meter device is the logical representation of a platform sensor that measures the power consumption of one
or more devices in the system. A basic platform implementation implements interfaces that query the current power
consumption and get the currently configured power consumption hardware limit, while more advance power meter
device implementations provide interfaces that support OSPM configurable power consumption trip points that trigger
SCI events, or enable configuration of the underlying hardware to enforce a hard limit on the maximum amount of
power that can be consumed.
10.1 Smart Battery Subsystems
The Smart Battery subsystem is defined by the:
• System Management Bus Specification (SMBS)
• Smart Battery Data Specification (SBDS)
• Smart Battery Charger Specification (SBCS)
• Smart Battery System Manager Specification (SBSM)
• Smart Battery Selector Specification (SBSS)
An ACPI-compatible Smart Battery subsystem consists of:
• An SMB-HC (CPU to SMB-HC) interface
682
