Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
4.8 ACPI Register Model
ACPI hardware resides in one of six address spaces:
• System I/O
• System memory
• PCI configuration
• SMBus
• Embedded controller
• Functional Fixed Hardware
Different implementations will result in different address spaces being used for different functions. The ACPI speci-
fication consists of fixed hardware registers and generic hardware registers. Fixed hardware registers are required to
implement ACPI-defined interfaces. The generic hardware registers are needed for any events generated by value-added
hardware.
ACPI defines register blocks. An ACPI-compatible system provides an ACPI table (the FADT, built in memory at
boot-up) that contains a list of pointers to the different fixed hardware register blocks used by OSPM. The bits within
these registers have attributes defined for the given register block. The types of registers that ACPI defines are:
• Status/Enable Registers (for events)
• Control Registers
If a register block is of the status/enable type, then it will contain a register with status bits, and a corresponding register
with enable bits. The status and enable bits have an exact implementation definition that needs to be followed (unless
otherwise noted), which is illustrated by the following diagram:
Fig. 4.4: Block Diagram of a Status/Enable Cell
Notice that the status bit, which hardware sets by the Event Input being set in this example, can only be cleared by
software writing a 1 to its bit position. Also, the enable bit has no effect on the setting or resetting of the status bit; it
only determines if the SET status bit will generate an “Event Output,” which generates an SCI when set if its enable
bit is set.
ACPI also defines register groupings. A register grouping consists of two register blocks, with two pointers to two
different blocks of registers, where each bit location within a register grouping is fixed and cannot be changed. The
bits within a register grouping, which have fixed bit positions, can be split between the two register blocks. This allows
the bits within a register grouping to reside in either or both register blocks, facilitating the ability to map bits within
several different chips to the same register thus providing the programming model with a single register grouping bit
structure.
OSPM treats a register grouping as a single register; but located in multiple places. To read a register grouping, OSPM
will read the “A” register block, followed by the “B” register block, and then will logically “OR” the two results together
(the SLP_TYP field is an exception to this rule). Reserved bits, or unused bits within a register block always return
zero for reads and have no side effects for writes (which is a requirement).
4.8. ACPI Register Model
63
