CHAPTER
ONE
INTRODUCTION
The Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) specification was developed to establish industry common
interfaces enabling robust operating system (OS)-directed motherboard device configuration and power management
of both devices and entire systems. ACPI is the key element in Operating System-directed configuration and Power
Management (OSPM).
ACPI evolved the existing pre-ACPI collection of power management BIOS code, Advanced Power Management
(APM) application programming interfaces (APIs, PNPBIOS APIs, Multiprocessor Specification (MPS) tables and
so on into a well-defined power management and configuration interface specification. ACPI provides the means for
an orderly transition from existing (legacy) hardware to ACPI hardware, and it allows for both ACPI and legacy mech-
anisms to exist in a single machine and to be used as needed.
Further, system architectures being built at the time of the original ACPI specification’s inception, stretched the limits of
historical “Plug and Play” interfaces. ACPI evolved existing motherboard configuration interfaces to support advanced
architectures in a more robust, and potentially more efficient manner.
The interfaces and OSPM concepts defined within this specification are suitable to all classes of computers includ-
ing (but not limited to) desktop, mobile, workstation, and server machines. From a power management perspective,
OSPM/ACPI promotes the concept that systems should conserve energy by transitioning unused devices into lower
power states including placing the entire system in a low-power state (sleeping state) when possible.
This document describes ACPI hardware interfaces, ACPI software interfaces and ACPI data structures that, when
implemented, enable support for robust OS-directed configuration and power management (OSPM).
1.1 Principal Goals
ACPI is the key element in implementing OSPM. ACPI-defined interfaces are intended for wide adoption to encourage
hardware and software vendors to build ACPI-compatible (and, thus, OSPM-compatible) implementations.
The principal goals of ACPI and OSPM are to:
• Enable all computer systems to implement motherboard configuration and power management functions, using
appropriate cost/function tradeoffs:
– Computer systems include (but are not limited to) desktop, mobile, workstation, and server machines.
– Machine implementers have the freedom to implement a wide range of solutions, from the very simple to
the very aggressive, while still maintaining full OS support.
– Wide implementation of power management will make it practical and compelling for applications to sup-
port and exploit it. It will make new uses of PCs practical and existing uses of PCs more economical.
• Enhance power management functionality and robustness:
1
