Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
11.2 Cooling Preferences
A robust OSPM implementation provides the means for the end user to convey a preference (or a level of preference) for
either performance or energy conservation to OSPM. Allowing the end user to choose this preference is most critical
to mobile system users where maximizing system run-time on a battery charge often has higher priority over realizing
maximum system performance. For example, if a user is taking notes on her PC in a quiet environment, such as a library
or a corporate meeting, she may want the system to emphasize passive cooling so that the system operates quietly, even
at the cost of system performance.
A user preference towards performance corresponds to the Active cooling mode while a user’s preference towards
energy conservation or quiet corresponds to the Passive cooling mode. ACPI defines an interface to convey the cooling
mode to the platform. Active cooling can be performed with minimal OSPM thermal policy intervention. For example,
the platform indicates through thermal zone parameters that crossing a thermal trip point requires a fan to be turned
on. Passive cooling requires OSPM thermal policy to manipulate device interfaces that reduce performance to reduce
thermal zone temperature.
Either cooling mode will be activated only when the thermal condition requires it. When the thermal zone is at an
optimal temperature level where it does not warrant any cooling, both modes result in a system operating at its maximum
potential with all fans turned off.
Thermal zones supporting the Set Cooling Policy interface allow the user to switch the system’s cooling mode emphasis.
See _SCP (Set Cooling Policy) for more information.
Fig. 11.4: Active and Passive Threshold Values
As illustrated in Active and Passive Threshold Values, the platform must convey the value for each threshold to instruct
OSPM to initiate the cooling policies at the desired target temperatures. The platform can emphasize active or passive
cooling modes by assigning different threshold values. Generally, if _ACx is set lower than _PSV, then the system
emphasizes active cooling. Conversely, if _PSV is set lower than _ACx, then the emphasis is placed on passive cooling.
For example, a thermal zone that includes a processor and one single-speed fan may use _PSV to indicate the tempera-
ture value at which OSPM would enable passive cooling and _AC0 to indicate the temperature at which the fan would
be turned on. If the value of _PSV is less than _AC0 then the system will favor passive cooling (for example, CPU
clock throttling). On the other hand, if _AC0 is less than _PSV the system will favor active cooling (in other words,
using the fan). See the figure below for more details.
11.2. Cooling Preferences
728
