Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
7.3.12 _PRE (Power Resources for Enumeration)
This object appears under a device and evaluates to a list of power resources that are required for enumeration of the
device by its parent bus. For the bus driver to enumerate any devices while they are in the D3Cold device state, OSPM
must ensure that the following occur:
1. All Power Resources referenced by elements 1 through N must be in the ON state.
2. If present, the _PSE control method is executed to perform any actions on the device to make it accessible for
enumeration.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A variable-length Package containing a list of References to power resources.
_PRE must return the same data each time it is evaluated. All power resources referenced must exist in the namespace.
7.3.13 _PRW (Power Resources for Wake)
This object evaluates to a list of power resources upon which this device depends for wake. It also contains additional
information needed for wake, including wake events and sleep or soft-off state information. _PRW is only required for
devices that have the ability to wake the system from a system sleeping state.
Four types of general purpose events are supported:
• GPEs that are defined by a GPE block described within the FADT.
• GPEs that are defined by a GPE Block Device.
• GPIO-signaled events that are defined by _AEI object of the GPIO controller device
• Interrupt-signaled events that are defined by _CRS object of the Generic Event Device (GED)
The four types of events are differentiated by the type of the EventInfo object in the returned package. For FADT-based
GPEs, EventInfo is an Integer containing a bit index. For Block Device-based GPEs, EventInfo is a Package containing
a Reference to the parent block device and an Integer containing a bit index. For GPIO-signaled events, EventInfo is
a Package containing a Reference to the GPIO controller device and an Integer containing the index of the event in
the _AEI object (starting from zero). For Interrupt-signaled events, EventInfo is a Package containing a Reference to
the GED and an Integer containing the index of the event in the _CRS object (starting from zero).
For HW-Reduced ACPI platforms that do not support wake on GPIO-signaled or Interrupt-signaled events, the
EventInfo structure is an Integer with value of zero, and is ignored by OSPM. Therefore, _PRW is only required on
such platforms if power resources for wakeup must be managed by OSPM (e.g. the _PRW provides a list of Power
Resources). Instead, for a device to wake the system, its interrupt must be wake-capable and enabled by the driver. See
Interrupt-based Wake Events.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A variable-length Package containing wake information and a list of References to power resources.
Return Value Information
7.3. Device Power Management Objects
499
