Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Bits [1:0]:
0 - The platform runtime firmware should not automatically switch
(toggle) the active display output, but instead just save the desired
state change for the display output devices in variables associated with
each display output, and generate the display switch event. OSPM can
query these state changes by calling the \_DGS method.
1 - The platform runtime firmware should automatically switch (toggle)
the active display output, with no interaction required on the OS part.
The display switch event should not be generated in this case.
2 - The \_DGS values should be locked. It's highly recommended that the
platform runtime firmware do nothing when hotkey pressed. No switch, no
notification.
3 - The platform runtime firmware should not automatically switch
(toggle) the active display output, but instead generate the display
switch event notify codes 0x82, 0x83, or 0x84. OSPM will determine what
display output state should be set, and change the display output state
without further involvement from the platform runtime firmware.
Bit [2]:
0 - The platform runtime firmware should automatically control the
brightness level of the LCD when the power changes from AC to DC.
1 - The platform runtime firmware should not automatically control the
brightness level of the LCD when the power changes from AC to DC.
The _DOS method controls this automatic switching behavior. This method should do so by saving the parameter
passed to this method in a global variable somewhere in the platform runtime firmware data segment. The platform
runtime firmware then checks the value of this variable when doing display switching. This method is also used to
control the generation of the display switching Notify (VGA, 0x80/0x81).
The platform runtime firmware, when doing switching of the active display, must verify the state of the variable set by
the _DOS method. The default value of this variable must be 1.
B.4.2 _DOD (Enumerate All Devices Attached to the Display Adapter)
This method is used to enumerate devices attached to the display adapter. This method is required if integrated controller
supports output switching.
On many laptops today, a number of devices can be connected to the graphics adapter in the machine. These devices
are on the motherboard and generally are not directly enumerable by the video driver; for this reason, all motherboard
VGA attached devices are listed in the ACPI namespace.
These devices fall into two categories:
• Video output devices. For example, a machine with a single display device on the motherboard can have three
possible output devices attached to it, such as a TV, a CRT, or a panel.
• Non-video output devices. For example, TV Tuner, DVD decoder, Video Capture. They just attach to VGA and
their power management closely relates to VGA.
Both ACPI and the video driver have the ability to program and configure output devices. This means that both ACPI
and the video driver must enumerate the devices using the same IDs. To solve this problem, the _DOD method returns a
B.4. Display-specific Methods
1116
