Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
entire range of persistent memory as ‘ARS Start SPA Address’ and ‘ARS Length’ for Start ARS, even if the persistent
memory range is not contiguous. Alternatively, the OSPM may decide to ignore event notification 0x81. If the memory
range is accessed before OSPM can process the ARS data, default platform error handing sequences, such as Machine
Check, may occur.
Platforms may support the ability for OSPM to clear an error previously reported from an ARS. OSPM should only issue
the Clear Uncorrectable Error function for a memory address range if that the address range has been retired from
further use or if valid error-free data is written to the range before those locations are read. If the Clear Uncorrectable
Error function is not supported by the platform or if a Clear Uncorrectable Error function for an address range fails,
the OSPM should continue to prevent accesses to the address ranges.
The ARS related functions use the following convention for the Status and Extended Status fields.
9.19.7.3 Address Range Scrub (ARS) Error Injection Overview
The expected OSPM ARS Error Injection flow is:
1. Inject an error with ARS Error Inject.
2. Optionally and if ARS Unconsumed Uncorrectable Memory Error Detected Notification is supported by the host,
system firmware triggers an ACPI NVDIMM root device notification 0x81 for the OSPM.
3. Use Start ARS with Flags Bit[1] set for OSPM acknowledgment of the notification to system firmware and use
ARS Query Status to query ARS status.
4. Optionally, use ARS Error Inject Status Query to query the error injected ranges.
5. Use ARS Error Inject Clear to clear the ARS error injected ranges. Until the error is cleared, system firmware
will report the error in the ARS Query Status output buffer.
Table 9.18: Status and Extended Status Field Generic Interpretations
Bytes
Field Name
Description
1-0
Status
0 - Success
1 - Function Not Supported
2 - Invalid Input Parameters
3 - Hardware Error
4 - Retry Suggested; it is up to the OSPM regarding the number of retries to
perform.
5 - Error - Unknown Reason
6 - Function-Specific Error Code
7 - FFFFh Reserved for errors
3-2
Extended Status
Function Specific
ò Note
If Status is nonzero, the Output Buffer for all the functions in the _DSM (Device Specific Method) is limited to only
the Status and Extended Status fields.
9.19. NVDIMM Devices
658
