Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
semantics with the Nominal Performance register. This register may be set to any performance value in the range
[Lowest Performance, Nominal Performance]. This register may be set to any value with relation to the Minimum,
Maximum, and Desired performance values.
The value written to the OSPM Nominal Performance Register conveys a hint to the platform in what performance
levels OSPM considers to be “throttled” or “boosted”. Performance levels above the programmed register value are to
be considered “boosted” and performance levels below the programmed register value are to be considered “throttled”.
If the OSPM nominal performance level is programmed to a value below the guaranteed performance level, the platform
should treat this as a cap to the performance level used for rounding and performance limiting notifications. The
platform does not need to reflect this capping in the guaranteed performance register.
If the OSPM nominal performance level is programmed to a value below the guaranteed performance level, and the
desired performance level is higher than OSPM nominal performance or the guaranteed performance level, the platform
must provide the OSPM nominal performance level and is not required to provide the guaranteed performance level.
The platform should ensure that all processors are running at least at the minimum of OSPM nominal performance level,
or desired performance level, before any processor is allowed to boost to performance levels above OSPM nominal
performance level.
If this register is not provided, then OSPM must assume that the OSPM Nominal Performance value is equal to the
Nominal Performance value.
8.4.6.1.2.7 Resource Priority Registers
Optional
Attribute:
Package
The optional Resource Priority Registers package conveys to OSPM a list of the available priority control registers that
can be used to tune the shared resources that are allocated to each processor. Each element in the Resource Priority
Registers package must be a Resource Priority Register Descriptor package as defined in Table 8.24.
All processors must report the same set of Resource Priority Register Descriptors that contain the same Controlled
Resources list and Priority Count. Processors are allowed to provide a different EnableValue, EnableRegister, and
PriorityRegister.
If OSPM decides to enable a Resource Priority Register and the EnableRegister is provided, OSPM must ensure that
EnableValue is written to EnableRegister on each processor. OSPM is not allowed to only enable a Resource Priority
Register for a subset of described processors.
OSPM’s use of resource priorities to affect performance must comprehend multiple resource domains and logical
processors with interdependencies. OSPM must consider that priorities for resources are not enforced across resource
domains. Meaning that a processor with a lower priority for a resource may have a larger allocation of that resource
than a processor with a higher priority if that resource is not shared between the two processors.
OSPM must also consider that processors with a lower priority may adversely affect the overall performance level of
the processor. Meaning that a processor with a low priority for some resources may be unable to achieve the requested
desired performance level due to resources being reduced for the processor.
This spec does not provide a requirement for how resources are allocated between processors within a domain, and
only requires that the platform should prioritize resources for specific processors over other processors. Exactly how
those resources are divided is left up to the platform.
Platforms are allowed to implement as many or as little priority registers as desired. A platform is allowed to define
a single priority register that controls all resources and can be used as an overall performance priority register for the
processor. A platform is also allowed to specify individual priority registers for each resource and OSPM can configure
priorities for those resources in any way.
A platform may expose a platform specific interface for controlling resources that may also be controlled through
the CPPC registers. OSPM should choose to control each unique resource using only one of the CPPC interface, or
8.4. Declaring Processors
579
