Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
12.1 Embedded Controller Interface Description
Embedded controllers are the general class of microcontrollers used to support OEM-specific implementations. The
ACPI specification supports embedded controllers in any platform design, as long as the microcontroller conforms to
one of the models described in this section. The embedded controller is a unique feature in that it can perform complex
low-level functions through a simple interface to the host microprocessor(s).
Although there is a large variety of microcontrollers in the market today, the most commonly used embedded controllers
include a host interface that connects the embedded controller to the host data bus, allowing bi-directional communi-
cations. A bi-directional interrupt scheme reduces the host processor latency in communicating with the embedded
controller.
Currently, the most common host interface architecture incorporated into microcontrollers is modeled after the standard
IA-PC architecture keyboard controller. This keyboard controller is accessed at 0x60 and 0x64 in system I/O space.
Port 0x60 is termed the data register, and allows bi-directional data transfers to and from the host and embedded
controller. Port 0x64 is termed the command/status register; it returns port status information upon a read, and generates
a command sequence to the embedded controller upon a write. This same class of controllers also includes a second
decode range that shares the same properties as the keyboard interface by having a command/status register and a data
register. The following diagram graphically depicts this interface.
Fig. 12.1: Shared Interface
The diagram above depicts the general register model supported by the ACPI Embedded Controller Interface.
The first method uses an embedded controller interface shared between OSPM and the system management code,
which requires the Global Lock semaphore overhead to arbitrate ownership. The second method is a dedicated embed-
ded controller decode range for sole use by OSPM driver. The following diagram illustrates the embedded controller
architecture that includes a dedicated ACPI interface.
The private interface allows OSPM to communicate with the embedded controller without the additional software
overhead associated with using the Global Lock. Several common system configurations can provide the additional
embedded controller interfaces:
12.1. Embedded Controller Interface Description
761
