Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.225 – continued from previous page
Event
Comment
RTC alarm
ACPI-defines an RTC wake alarm function with a minimum of one-month
granularity. The ACPI status bit for the device is optional. If the ACPI
status bit is not present, the RTC status can be used to determine when
an alarm has occurred. For more information, see the description of the
RTC_STS and RTC_EN bits of the PM1x fixed register block in PM1
Event Grouping
Wake status
The wake status bit is used to determine when the sleeping state has been
completed. For more information, see the description of the WAK_STS
and WAK_EN bits of the PM1x fixed register block in PM1 Event Group-
ing
System bus master request
The bus-master status bit provides feedback from the hardware as to when
a bus master cycle has occurred. This is necessary for supporting the pro-
cessor C3 power savings state. For more information, see the description
of the BM_STS bit of the PM1x fixed register block in PM1 Event Group-
ing
Global Release Status
This status is raised as a result of the Global Lock protocol, and is handled
by OSPM as part of Global Lock synchronization. For more information,
see the description of the GBL_STS bit of the PM1x fixed register block
in PM1 Event Grouping.
5.6.4 General-Purpose Event Handling
When OSPM receives a general-purpose event, it either passes control to an ACPI-aware driver, or uses an OEM-
supplied control method to handle the event. An OEM can implement up to 128 general-purpose event inputs in
hardware per GPE block, each as either a level or edge event. It is also possible to implement a single 256-pin block as
long as it’s the only block defined in the system.
An example of a general-purpose event is specified in ACPI Hardware Specification where EC_STS and EC_EN bits
are defined to enable OSPM to communicate with an ACPI-aware embedded controller device driver. The EC_STS bit
is set when either an interface in the embedded controller space has generated an interrupt or the embedded controller
interface needs servicing. Notice that if a platform uses an embedded controller in the ACPI environment, then the
embedded controller’s SCI output must be directly and exclusively tied to a single GPE input bit.
Hardware can cascade other general-purpose events from a bit in the GPEx_BLK through status and enable bits in
Operational Regions (I/O space, memory space, PCI configuration space, or embedded controller space). For more in-
formation, see the specification of the General-Purpose Event Blocks (GPEx_BLK) in General-Purpose Event Register
Blocks
OSPM manages the bits in the GPEx blocks directly, although the source to those events is not directly known and is
connected into the system by control methods. When OSPM receives a general-purpose event (the event is from either
a GPEx_BLK STS bit, a GPIO pin, or an Interrupt), OSPM does the following:
1. Disables the interrupt source
2. (GPEx_BLK EN bit): GPIO interrupt for GPIO-signaled events. | Interrupt for Interrupt-signaled events. | If an
edge event, clears the status bit.
3. Performs one of the following: Dispatches to an ACPI-aware device driver. | Queues the matching control method
for execution. | Manages a wake event using device _PRW objects.
4. If a level event, waits for the control method handler to complete and clears the status bit.
5. Enables the interrupt source.
5.6. ACPI Event Programming Model
329
