Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
11.4.1 _ACx (Active Cooling)
This optional object, if present under a thermal zone, returns the temperature trip point at which OSPM must start or
stop Active cooling, where x is a value between 0 and 9 that designates multiple active cooling levels of the thermal
zone. If the Active cooling device has one cooling level (that is, “on”) then that cooling level must be defined as _AC0.
If the cooling device has two levels of capability, such as a high fan speed and a low fan speed, then they must be defined
as _AC0 and _AC1 respectively. The smaller the value of x, the greater the cooling strength _ACx represents. In the
above example, _AC0 represents the greater level of cooling (the faster fan speed) and _AC1 represents the lesser level
of cooling (the slower fan speed). For every _ACx method, there must be a matching _ALx object or a corresponding
entry in an _ART object’s active cooling relationship list.
If this object it present under a device, the device’s driver evaluates this object to determine the device’s corresponding
active cooling temperature trip point. This value may then be used by the device’s driver to program an internal device
temperature sensor trip point. When this object is present under a device, the device must contain a native OS device
driver interface supporting a corresponding active cooling control, a matching _ALx object under the thermal zone of
which the device is a member must exist, or a corresponding entry in an _ART object’s active cooling relationship list
must.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the active cooling temperature threshold in tenths of degrees Kelvin
The return value is an integer that represents tenths of degrees Kelvin. For example, 300.0K is represented by the
integer 3000.
11.4.2 _ALx (Active List)
This object is defined under a thermal zone and evaluates to a list of Active cooling devices to be turned on when the
corresponding _ACx temperature threshold is exceeded. For example, these devices could be fans.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A variable-length Package containing a list of References to active cooling devices
The return value is a package consisting of references to all active cooling devices that should be engaged when the
associated active cooling threshold (_ACx) is exceeded.
When the returned package consists of references to an active cooling device that is a fan device and the fan device
implements _FPS and _FSL objects, OSPM activates the identified fan at a capability level matching the level identified
by this object. For example, if the system has a fan that implements _FPS object with 5 levels, and if _AL3 is evaluated
by the OSPM causing it to return this fan’s reference, then the fan is activated by evaluating _FSL with the value from
the Control field of an _FPS entry whose TripPoint field value equals 3.
If a thermal zone has the _ART object defined, then it is not necessary to have any _ALx objects implemented.
ò Note
If a thermal zone has _ART object defined as well as _ALx defined, the OSPM ignores _ALx objects and uses
_ART exclusively.
11.4. Thermal Objects
735
