Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.112 – continued from previous page
Field
Byte
Length
Byte Offset
Exit
Latency
(in
ns)
(MPSx –> MPS0)
8
12
This field provides latency of exiting out of a power state
(MPSx) to active state (MPS0).
The unit of this field is
nanoseconds.
When this entry is describing MPS0 state itself, OSPM should
ignore this field.
Reserved
8
20
Reserved for future use.
Table 5.113: Flag format of Memory Power State Characteristics
Structure
Bit
Name
Description
0
Memory
Content
Preserved
If Bit [0] is set, it indicates memory contents will be preserved in the specified
power state If Bit [0] is clear, it indicates memory contents will be lost in the
specified power state (e.g. for states such as offline)
1
Autonomous Mem-
ory Power State En-
try
If Bit [1] is set, this field indicates that given memory power state entry tran-
sition needs to be triggered explicitly by OSPM by calling the Set Power State
command. If Bit [1] is clear, this field indicates that given memory power state
entry transition is automatically implemented in hardware and does not require a
OSPM trigger. The role of OSPM in this case is to ensure that the corresponding
memory region is idled from a software standpoint to facilitate entry to the state.
Not meaningful for MPS0 - write it for this table
2
Autonomous Mem-
ory Power State Exit
If Bit [1] is set, this field indicates that given memory power state exit needs to
be explicitly triggered by the OSPM before the memory can be accessed. System
behavior is undefined if OSPM or other software agents attempt to access mem-
ory that is currently in a low power state. If Bit [1] is clear, this field indicates
that given memory power state is exited automatically on access to the memory
address range corresponding to the memory power node.
3-7
Reserved
Reserved for future use
5.2.22.6.1 Power Consumed
Average Power Consumed in MPS0 state indicates the power in milli Watts for the MPS0 state. Relative power savings
to MPS0 indicates the savings in the MPSx state as a percentage of savings relative to MPS0 state.
5.2.22.6.2 Exit Latency
Exit Latency provided in the Memory Power Characteristics structure for a specific power state is inclusive of the entry
latency for that state.
Exit latency must always be provided for a memory power state regardless of whether the memory power state entry
and/or exit are autonomous or requires explicit trigger from OSPM.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
204
