Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
13.1.2 SMBus Protocols
There are seven possible command protocols for any given SMBus slave device, and a device may use any or all of
the protocols to communicate. The protocols and associated access type indicators are listed below. Notice that the
protocols values are similar to those defined for the EC-based SMBus in Protocol Register, SMB_PRTCL except that
protocol pairs (for example, Read Byte, Write Byte) have been joined.
Table 13.1: SMBus Protocol Types
Value
Type
Description
0x02
SMBQuick
SMBus Read/Write Quick Protocol
0x04
SMBSendReceive
SMBus Send/Receive Byte Protocol
0x06
SMBByte
SMBus Read/Write Byte Protocol
0x08
SMBWord
SMBus Read/Write Word Protocol
0x0A
SMBBlock
SMBus Read/Write Block Protocol
0x0C
SMBProcessCall
SMBus Process Call Protocol
0x0D
SMBBlockProcessCall
SMBus Write Block-Read Block Process Call Protocol
All other protocol values are reserved.
Notice that bit 7 of the protocol value is used by this interface to indicate to the SMB-HC whether or not packet error
checking (PEC) should be employed for a transaction. Packet error checking is described in section 7.4 of the System
Management Bus Specification, Version 1.1. This highly desirable capability improves the reliability and robustness
of SMBus communications.
The bit encoding of the protocol value is shown below. For example, the value 0x86 would be used to specify the PEC
version of the SMBus Read/Write Byte protocol.
Fig. 13.1: Bit Encoding Example
Notice that bit 0 of the protocol value is always zero (even number hexadecimal values). In a manner similar to the
slave address, software that implements the SMBus interface is responsible for setting this bit to indicate whether the
transaction is a read (for example, Read Byte) or write (for example, Write Byte) operation.
For example, software implanting this interface for EC-SMBus segments would set bit 0 for read transactions. For the
SMBByte protocol (0x06), this would result in the value 0x07 being placed into the SMB_PRTCL register (or 0x87 if
PEC is requested) for write transactions.
13.1.3 SMBus Status Codes
The use of status codes helps AML determine whether an SMBus transaction was successful. In general, a status code
of zero indicates success, while a non-zero value indicates failure. The SMBus interface uses the same status codes
defined for the EC-SMBus (see Status Register, SMB_STS).
13.1. SMBus Overview
786
