Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 4.2: Global States and Their Transitions
The ACPI architecture defines mechanisms for hardware to generate events and control logic to implement this behavior
model. Events are used to notify OSPM that some action is needed, and control logic is used by OSPM to cause some
state transition. ACPI-defined events are “hardware” or “interrupt” events. A hardware event is one that causes the
hardware to unconditionally perform some operation. For example, any wake event will sequence the system from a
sleeping state (S1, S2, S3, and S4 in the global G1 state) to the G0 working state (see Example Sleeping States).
An interrupt event causes the execution of an event handler (AML code or an ACPI-aware driver), which allows the
software to make a policy decision based on the event. For ACPI fixed-feature events, OSPM or an ACPI-aware driver
acts as the event handler. For generic logic events OSPM will schedule the execution of an OEM-supplied AML control
method associated with the event.
For legacy systems, an event normally generates an OS-transparent interrupt, such as a System Management Interrupt,
or SMI. For ACPI systems the interrupt events need to generate an OS-visible interrupt that is shareable; edge-style
interrupts will not work. Hardware platforms that want to support both legacy operating systems and ACPI systems
support a way of re-mapping the interrupt events between SMIs and SCIs when switching between ACPI and legacy
models. This is illustrated in the following block diagram.
This example logic illustrates the event model for a sample platform that supports both legacy and ACPI event models.
This example platform supports a number of external events that are power-related (power button, LID open/close,
thermal, ring indicate) or Plug and Play-related (dock, status change). The logic represents the three different types of
events:
OS Transparent Events
These events represent OEM-specific functions that have no OS support and use software that can be
operated in an OS-transparent fashion (that is, SMIs).
Interrupt Events
These events represent features supported by ACPI-compatible operating systems, but are not supported
by legacy operating systems. When a legacy OS is loaded, these events are mapped to the transparent
interrupt (SMI# in this example), and when in ACPI mode they are mapped to an OS-visible shareable
4.6. The ACPI Hardware Model
58
