Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
7.4.2.5 System \_S4 State
While the system is in this state, it is in the system S4 sleeping state. The state is logically deeper than the S3 state and
is assumed to conserve more power. The behavior of this state is defined as follows:
• The processors are not executing instructions. The processor-complex context is not maintained.
• DRAM context is not maintained.
• Power Resources are in a state compatible with the system S4 state. All Power Resources that supply a System-
Level reference of S0, S1, S2, or S3 are in the OFF state.
• Devices states are compatible with the current Power Resource states. In other words, all devices are in the D3
state when the system state is S4.
• Devices that are enabled to wake the system and that can do so from their device state in S4 can initiate a hardware
event that transitions the system state to S0. This transition causes the processor to begin execution at its boot
location.
After OSPM has executed the _PTS control method and has put the entire system state into main memory, there are two
ways that OSPM may handle the next phase of the S4 state transition; saving and restoring main memory. The first way
is to use the operating system’s drivers to access the disks and file system structures to save a copy of memory to disk
and then initiate the hardware S4 sequence by setting the SLP_EN register bit. When the system wakes, the firmware
performs a normal boot process and transfers control to the OS via the firmware_waking_vector loader. The OS then
restores the system’s memory and resumes execution.
The alternate method for entering the S4 state is to utilize the platform runtime firmware via the S4BIOS transition.
The platform runtime firmware uses firmware to save a copy of memory to disk and then initiates the hardware S4
sequence. When the system wakes, the firmware restores memory from disk and wakes OSPM by transferring control
to the FACS waking vector.
The S4BIOS transition is optional, but any system that supports this mechanism must support entering the S4 state
via the direct OS mechanism. Thus the preferred mechanism for S4 support is the direct OS mechanism as it provides
broader platform support. The alternate S4BIOS transition provides a way to achieve S4 support on operating systems
that do not have support for the direct method.
7.4.2.6 System \_S5 State (Soft Off)
The S5 state is similar to the S4 state except that OSPM does not save any context. The system is in the soft off state
and requires a complete boot when awakened (platform boot firmware and OS). Software uses a different state value
to distinguish between this state and the S4 state to allow for initial boot operations within the platform boot firmware
to distinguish whether or not the boot is going to wake from a saved memory image. OSPM does not disable wake
events before setting the SLP_EN bit when entering the S5 system state. This provides support for remote management
initiatives by enabling Remote Start capability. An ACPI-compliant OS must provide an end user accessible mechanism
for disabling all wake devices, with the exception of the system power button, from a single point in the user interface.
7.4.3 \_SWS (System Wake Source)
This object provides a means for OSPM to definitively determine the source of an event that caused the system to enter
the S0 state. General-purpose event and fixed-feature hardware registers containing wake event sources information
are insufficient for this purpose as the source event information may not be available after transitions to the S0 state
from all other system states (S1-S5).
To determine the source event that caused the system to transition to the S0 state, OSPM will evaluate the _SWS object,
when it exists, under the \_GPE scope (for all fixed-feature general-purpose events from the GPE Blocks), under the
\_SB scope (for fixed-feature hardware events), and within the scope of a GPE Block device (for GPE events from this
7.4. OEM-Supplied System-Level Control Methods
512
