Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
11.1.3.2 Polling
Temperature sensor hardware that is incapable of generating thermal change events, or that can do so for only a few
thresholds should inform OSPM to implement a poll-based policy. OSPM does this to ensure that temperature changes
across threshold boundaries are always detectable.
Polling can be done in conjunction with hardware notifications. For example, thermal zone hardware that only supports
a single threshold might be configured to use this threshold as the critical temperature trip point. Assuming that
hardware monitors the temperature at a finer granularity than OSPM would, this environment has the benefit of being
more responsive when the system is overheating.
A thermal zone advertises the need to be polled by OSPM via the _TZP object. See _TZP (Thermal Zone Polling) for
more information.
11.1.4 Active Cooling
Active cooling devices typically consume power and produce some amount of noise when enabled. These devices
attempt to cool a thermal zone through the removal of heat rather than limiting the performance of a device to address
an adverse thermal condition.
The active cooling interfaces in conjunction with the active cooling lists or the active cooling relationship table (_ART)
allow the platform to use an active device that offers varying degrees of cooling capability or multiple cooling devices.
The active cooling temperature trip points designate the temperature where Active cooling is engaged or disengaged
(depending upon the direction in which the temperature is changing). For thermal zone-wide active cooling controls,
the _ALx object evaluates to a list of devices that actively cool the zone or the _ART object evaluates to describe the
entire active cooling relationship of various devices. For example:
• If a standard single-speed fan is the Active cooling device, then _AC0 evaluates to the temperature where active
cooling is engaged and the fan is listed in _AL0.
• If the zone uses two independently controlled single-speed fans to regulate the temperature, then _AC0 will
evaluate to the maximum cooling temperature using two fans, and _AC1 will evaluate to the standard cooling
temperature using one fan.
• If a zone has a single fan with a low speed and a high speed, the _AC0 will evaluate to the temperature associated
with running the fan at high-speed, and _AC1 will evaluate to the temperature associated with running the fan
at low speed. _AL0 and _AL1 will both point to different device objects associated with the same physical fan,
but control the fan at different speeds.
• If the zone uses two independently controlled multiple-speed fans to regulate the temperature, _AC0 of the target
devices evaluates to the temperature at which OSPM will engage fan devices described by the _ART object as
needed up to a maximum capability level.
For ASL coding examples that illustrate these points, see Thermal Zone Interface Requirements and Thermal Zone
Examples.
11.1.5 Passive Cooling
Passive cooling controls are able to cool a thermal zone without creating noise and without consuming additional power
(actually saving power), but do so by decreasing the performance of the devices in the zone .
11.1. Thermal Control
725
