Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 6.8 – continued from previous page
Cache-line size
Integer
Cache-line size reported in number of DWORDs.
Latency timer
Integer
Latency timer value reported in number of PCI clock cycles.
Enable SERR
Integer
When set to 1, indicates that action must be performed to enable
SERR in the command register.
Enable PERR
Integer
When set to 1, indicates that action must be performed to enable
PERR in the command register.
If the hot plug device includes bridge(s) in the hierarchy, the above settings apply to the primary side (command register)
of the hot plugged bridge(s). The settings for the secondary side of the bridge(s) (Bridge Control Register) are assumed
to be provided by the bridge driver.
The Type 0 record is applicable to hot plugged PCI, PCI-X and PCI Express devices. OSPM will ignore settings
provided in the Type0 record that are not applicable (for example, Cache-line size and Latency Timer are not applicable
to PCI Express).
6.2.10.2 PCI-X Setting Record (Type 1)
The PCI-X setting record contains the setting type 1, the current revision 1 and the type/revision specific content: the
maximum memory read byte count setting, the average maximum outstanding split transactions setting and the total
maximum outstanding split transactions to be used when configuring PCI-X command registers for PCI-X buses and/or
devices.
Table 6.9: PCI-X Setting Record Content
Field
Object Type
Definition
Header
- Type
Integer
0x01: Type 1 (PCI-X) setting record.
- Revision
Integer
0x01: Revision 1, defining the set of fields below.
Maximum
memory read
byte count
Integer
Maximum memory read byte count reported: Value 0: Maximum byte count
512 Value 1: Maximum byte count 1024 Value 2: Maximum byte count 2048
Value 3: Maximum byte count 4096
Average
maximum
outstanding
split
transac-
tions
Integer
The following values are defined: Value 0: Maximum outstanding split trans-
action 1 Value 1: Maximum outstanding split transaction 2 Value 2: Maximum
outstanding split transaction 3 Value 3: Maximum outstanding split transaction
4 Value 4: Maximum outstanding split transaction 8 Value 5: Maximum out-
standing split transaction 12 Value 6: Maximum outstanding split transaction 16
Value 7: Maximum outstanding split transaction 32
Total
max-
imum
out-
standing split
transactions
Integer
See the definition for the average maximum outstanding split transactions.
For simplicity, OSPM could use the Average Maximum Outstanding Split Transactions value as the Maximum Out-
standing Split Transactions register value in the PCI-X command register for each PCI-X device. Another alternative is
to use a more sophisticated policy and the Total Maximum Outstanding Split Transactions Value to gain even more per-
formance. In this case, the OS would examined each PCI-X device that is directly attached to the host bridge, determine
the number of outstanding split transactions supported by each device, and configure each device accordingly. The goal
is to ensure that the aggregate number of concurrent outstanding split transactions does not exceed the Total Maximum
Outstanding Split Transactions Value: an integer denoting the number of concurrent outstanding split transactions the
host bridge can support (the minimum value is 1).
This object does not address providing additional information that would be used to configure registers in bridge devices,
whether architecturally-defined or specification-defined registers or device specific registers. It is expected that a driver
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
389
