Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
enumerable by software. For example, PCI Configuration space access and contents must operate as in shallower
power states. Similarly, ACPI identification and configuration objects must operate as in shallower power states.
Otherwise, no device functionality is supported, and Driver software is required to restore any lost context, or
reinitialize the device, during its transition back to D0.
Devices in this state can have long restore times. All classes of devices define this state.
ò Note
For devices that support both D3hot and D3 exposed to OSPM via _PR3, device software/drivers must always
assume OSPM will target D3 and must assume all device context will be lost and the device will no longer be
enumerable.
D2
The meaning of the D2 Device State is defined by each device class. Many device classes may not define D2. In
general, D2 is expected to save more power and preserve less device context than D1 or D0. Buses in D2 may
cause the device to lose some context (for example, by reducing power on the bus, thus forcing the device to turn
off some of its functions).
D1
The meaning of the D1 Device State is defined by each device class. Many device classes may not define D1. In
general, D1 is expected to save less power and preserve more device context than D2.
D0 (Fully-On)
This state is assumed to be the highest level of power consumption. The device is completely active and respon-
sive, and is expected to remember all relevant context continuously.
Transitions amongst these power states are restricted for simplicity. Power-down transitions (from higher-power, or
shallower, to lower-power, or deeper) are allowed between any two states. However, power-up transitions (from deeper
to shallower) are required to go through D0; i.e. Dy to Dx<y is illegal for all x !=0.
Table 2.2: Summary of Device Power States
Device State
Power Consumption
Device Context Retained
Driver Restoration
D0 - Fully-On
As needed for operation
All
None
D1
D0>D1>D2> D3hot>D3
>D2
<D2
D2
D0>D1>D2> D3hot>D3
<D1
>D1
D3hot
D0>D1>D2>D3hot>D3
Optional
None <->Full initializa-
tion and load
D3 - Off
0
None
Full initialization and load
ò Note
Devices often have different power modes within a given state. Devices can use these modes as long as they
can automatically transparently switch between these modes from the software, without violating the rules for the
current Dx state the device is in. Low-power modes that adversely affect performance (in other words, low speed
modes) or that are not transparent to software cannot be done automatically in hardware; the device driver must
issue commands to use these modes.
2.3. Device Power State Definitions
26
