Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.80: Flags - RINTC Affinity Structure
Field
Bit
Length
Bit Off-
set
Description
Enabled
1
0
If clear, the OSPM ignores the contents of the RINTC Affinity Struc-
ture. This allows system firmware to populate the SRAT with a static
number of structures but only enable them as necessary.
Reserved
31
1
Must be zero
5.2.17 System Locality Information Table (SLIT)
This optional table provides a matrix that describes the relative distance (memory latency) between all System Locali-
ties, which are also referred to as Proximity Domains. Systems employing a Non Uniform Memory Access (NUMA)
architecture contain collections of hardware resources including for example, processors, memory, and I/O buses, that
comprise what is known as a “NUMA node”. Processor accesses to memory or I/O resources within the local NUMA
node is generally faster than processor accesses to memory or I/O resources outside of the local NUMA node.
The value of each Entry[i,j] in the SLIT table, where i represents a row of a matrix and j represents a column of a
matrix, indicates the relative distances from System Locality / Proximity Domain i to every other System Locality j in
the system (including itself).
The i,j row and column values correlate to Proximity Domain values in the System Resource Affinity Table (SRAT),
and to values returned by _PXM objects in the ACPI namespace. See Section 5.2.16 for more information.
The entry value is a one-byte unsigned integer. The relative distance from System Locality i to System Locality j is
the i*N + j entry in the matrix, where N is the number of System Localities. Except for the relative distance from a
System Locality to itself, each relative distance is stored twice in the matrix. This provides the capability to describe
the scenario where the relative distances for the two directions between System Localities is different.
The diagonal elements of the matrix, the relative distances from a System Locality to itself are normalized to a value
of 10. The relative distances for the non-diagonal elements are scaled to be relative to 10. For example, if the relative
distance from System Locality i to System Locality j is 2.4, a value of 24 is stored in table entry i*N+ j and in j*N+ i,
where N is the number of System Localities.
If one locality is unreachable from another, a value of 255 (0xFF) is stored in that table entry. Distance values of 0-9
are reserved and have no meaning.
Table 5.81: SLIT Format
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Header
- Signature
4
0
‘SLIT’. Signature for the System Locality Distance Informa-
tion Table.
- Length
4
4
Length, in bytes, of the entire System Locality Distance Infor-
mation Table.
- Revision
1
8
1
- Checksum
1
9
Entire table must sum to zero.
- OEMID
6
10
OEM ID.
- OEM Table ID
8
16
For the System Locality Information Table, the table ID is the
manufacturer model ID.
- OEM Revision
4
24
OEM revision of System Locality Information Table for sup-
plied OEM Table ID.
continues on next page
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
173
