Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 11.5: Cooling Preferences
The example on the left enables active cooling (for example, turn on a fan) when OSPM detects the temperature has
risen above 50°. If for some reason the fan does not reduce the system temperature, then at 75° OSPM will initiate
passive cooling (for example, CPU throttling) while still running the fan. If the temperature continues to climb, OSPM
will quickly shut the system down when the temperature reaches 90°C. The example on the right is similar but the
_AC0 and _PSV threshold values have been swapped to emphasize passive cooling.
The ACPI thermal model allows flexibility in the thermal zone design. An OEM that needs a less elaborate thermal
implementation may consider using only a single threshold (for example, _CRT). Complex thermal implementations
can be modeled using multiple active cooling thresholds and devices, or through the use of additional thermal zones.
11.2.1 Evaluating Thermal Device Lists
The Notify(thermal_zone, 0x82) statement is used to inform OSPM that a change has been made to the thermal zone
device lists. This thermal event instructs OSPM to re-evaluate the _ALx, _PSL, and _TZD objects.
For example, a system that supports the dynamic insertions of processors might issue this notification to inform OSPM
of changes to _PSL following the insertion or removal of a processor. OSPM would re-evaluate all thermal device lists
and adjust its policy accordingly.
Notice that this notification can be used with the Notify(thermal_zone, 0x81) statement to inform OSPM to both re-
evaluate all device lists and all thresholds.
Alternatively, devices may include the _TZM (Thermal Zone Member) object their device scope to convey their thermal
zone association to OSPM. See _TZM (Thermal Zone Member) below for more information.
11.2.2 Evaluating Device Thermal Relationship Information
The Notify(thermal_zone, 0x83) statement is used to inform OSPM that a change has been made to the thermal re-
lationship information. This thermal event instructs OSPM to re-evaluate the _TRT and _ART objects. The thermal
influence between devices may change when active cooling moves air across device packages as compared to when
only passive cooling controls are applied. Similarly, the active cooling relationship may change as various fans are
engaged to actively cool a platform or if user preferences change.
11.2. Cooling Preferences
729
