Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.168 – continued from previous page
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
5.2.28 Secure Devices (SDEV) ACPI Table
The Secure DEVices (SDEV) table is a list of secure devices known to the system. The table is applicable to systems
where a secure OS partition and a non-secure OS partition co-exist. A secure device is a device that is protected by the
secure OS, preventing accesses from non-secure OS.
The table provides a hint as to which devices should be protected by the secure OS. The enforcement of the table is
provided by the secure OS and any pre-boot environment preceding it. The table itself does not provide any security
guarantees. It is the responsibility of the system manufacturer to ensure that the operating system is configured to
enable security features that make use of the SDEV table.
There are three options for each device in the system:
1) Device is listed in SDEV. “Allow handoff...” flag is clear. This provides a hint that the device should be always
protected within the secure OS. For example, the secure OS may require that a device used for user authentication
must be protected to guard against tampering by malicious software.
2) Device is listed in SDEV. “Allow handoff...” flag is set. This provides a hint that the device should be initially
protected by the secure OS, but it is up to the discretion of the secure OS to allow the device to be handed off
to the non-secure OS when requested. Any OS component that expected the device to be operating in secure
mode would not correctly function after the handoff has been completed. For example, a device may be used for
variety of purposes, including user authentication. If the secure OS determines that the necessary components
for driving the device are missing, it may release control of the device to the non-secure OS. In this case, the
device cannot be used for secure authentication, but other operations can correctly function.
3) Device not listed in SDEV. For example, the status quo is that no hints are provided. Any OS component that
expected the device to be in secure mode would not correctly function.
The OS vendor provides guidance on which devices can be listed in the SDEV table. In other words, which devices are
compatible with the secure OS, and which devices should have the “allow handoff” flag set.
See the following table for the SDEV ACPI definition.
Table 5.169: SDEV ACPI Table
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Header
- Signature
4
0
‘SDEV’. Signature for the Table
- Length
4
4
Length, in bytes, of the entire Table.
- Revision
1
8
1
- Checksum
1
9
Entire table must sum to zero.
- OEM ID
6
10
OEM ID
- OEM Table ID
8
16
For the SDEV Table, the table ID is the manufacturer model
ID.
- OEM Revision
4
24
OEM revision of SDEV Table for supplied OEM Table ID.
- Creator ID
4
28
Vendor ID of utility that created the table.
- Creator Revision
4
32
Revision of utility that created the table.
Secure Device Structures
[]
—
36
A list of structures containing one or more Secure Device
Structures as defined in next section.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
247
