Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
(continued from previous page)
Package() \\ Resource Priority Register Descriptor
{
Package() { 2 }, \\ Controlled Resources
0, \\ Enable Value
ResourceTemplate() {Register(SystemMemory, 0, 0, 0, 0)}, \\ Enable Register
4, \\ Priority Count
ResourceTemplate() {Register(PCC, 32, 0, 0x113, 2)}, \\ Priority Register
}
}
8.4.6.1.3 Performance Feedback
The platform provides performance feedback via set of performance counters, and a performance limited indicator.
8.4.6.1.3.1 Performance Counters
To determine the actual performance level delivered over time, OSPM may read a set of performance counters from
the Reference Performance Counter Register and the Delivered Performance Counter Register.
OSPM calculates the delivered performance over a given time period by taking a beginning and ending snapshot of
both the reference and delivered performance counters, and calculating:
The delivered performance should always fall in the range [Lowest Performance, Highest Performance], inclusive.
OSPM may use the delivered performance counters as a feedback mechanism to refine the desired performance state it
selects.
When Autonomous Selection is not enabled, there are constraints that govern how and when the performance deliv-
ered by the platform may deviate from the OSPM Desired Performance. Corresponding to OSPM setting a Desired
Performance: at any time after that, the following constraints on delivered performance apply
• Delivered performance can be higher than the OSPM requested desired performance if the platform is able to
deliver the higher performance at same or lower energy than if it were delivering the desired performance.
• Delivered performance may be higher or lower than the OSPM desired performance if the platform has dis-
crete performance states and needed to round down performance to the nearest supported performance level in
accordance to the algorithm prescribed in the OSPM controls section.
• Delivered performance may be lower than the OSPM desired performance if the platform’s efficiency optimiza-
tions caused the delivered performance to be less than desired performance. However, the delivered performance
should never be lower than the OSPM specified Performance Reduction Tolerance. The Performance Reduction
Tolerance provides a bound to the platform on how aggressive it can be when optimizing performance delivery.
The platform should not perform any optimization that would cause delivered performance to be lower than the
OSPM specified Performance Reduction Tolerance.
Reference Performance Counter Register
Attribute:
Read
Size:
32 or 64 bits
8.4. Declaring Processors
582
