Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
19.6.133 Subtract (Integer Subtract)
Syntax:
Subtract ( Minuend, Subtrahend, Result ) => Integer
Result = Minuend - Subtrahend => Integer
Result -= Subtrahend => Integer
Arguments
Minuend and Subtrahend are evaluated as Integers.
Description
Subtrahend is subtracted from Minuend, and the result is optionally stored into Result. Underflow conditions are
ignored and the result simply loses the most significant bits.
19.6.134 Switch (Select Code To Execute Based On Expression)
Syntax:
Switch (Expression) {CaseTermList}
Arguments
Expression is an ASL expression that evaluates to an Integer, String or Buffer.
Description
The Switch, Case and Default statements help simplify the creation of conditional and branching code. The Switch
statement transfers control to a statement within the enclosed body of executable ASL code
If the Case Value is an Integer, Buffer or String, then control passes to the statement that matches the value of Switch
(Expression). If the Case value is a Package, then control passes if any member of the package matches the Switch
(Value) The Switch CaseTermList can include any number of Case instances, but no two Case Values (or members of
a Value, if Value is a Package) within the same Switch statement can have the same value.
Execution of the statement body begins at the selected TermList and proceeds until the TermList end of body or until
a Break or Continue statement transfers control out of the body.
The Default statement is executed if no Case Value matches the value of Switch (expression). If the Default statement
is omitted, and no Case match is found, none of the statements in the Switch body are executed. There can be at most
one Default statement. The Default statement can appear anywhere in the body of the Switch statement.
A Case or Default term can only appear inside a Switch statement. Switch statements can be nested. (Compatibil-
ity Note) The Switch, Case, and Default terms were first introduced in ACPI 2.0. However, their implementation is
backward compatible with ACPI 1.0 AML interpreters.
Example
Use of the Switch statement usually looks something like this:
Switch (expression)
{
Case (value) {
Statements executed if Lequal (expression, value)
}
Case (Package () {value, value, value}) {
Statements executed if Lequal (expression, any value in package)
(continues on next page)
19.6. ASL Operator Reference
1040
