Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
example, the bus reduces power supplied to the bus). Devices in D2 must be prepared for the bus to be in D2 or
higher.
• D3. State in which device is off and not running. Device context is lost. Power can be removed from the device.
Device power-state transitions are typically invoked through bus-specific mechanisms (for example, ATA Standby, USB
Suspend, and so on). In some cases, bus-specific mechanisms are not available and device-specific mechanisms must
be used. Notice that the explicit command for entering the D3 state might be the removal of power.
It is the responsibility of the policy owner (or other software) to restore any lost device context when returning to the
D0 state.
A.2.1 Bus Power Management
Policy owners for bus devices (for example, PCI, USB, Small Computer System Interface [SCSI]) have the additional
responsibility of tracking the power states of all devices on the bus and for transitioning the bus itself to only those
power states that are consistent with those of its devices. This means that the bus state can be no lower than the highest
state of one of its devices. However, enabled wake events can affect this as well. For example, if a particular device is
in the D2 state and set to wake the system and the bus can only forward wake requests while in the D1 state, then the
bus must remain in the D1 state even if all devices are in a lower state.
Below are summaries of relevant bus power management specifications with references to the sources.
A.2.2 Display Power Management
Refer to the Display Power Management Signaling Specification (DPMS), available from:
Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA)
2150 North First Street
Suite 440
San Jose, CA 95131-2029
A DPMS-compliant video controller and DPMS-compliant monitor use the horizontal and vertical sync signals to
control the power mode of the monitor. There are 4 modes of operation: normal, standby, suspend and off. DPMS-
compliant video controllers toggle the sync lines on or off to select the power mode.
A.2.3 PCMCIA/PCCARD/CardBus Power Management
PCMCIA and PCCARD devices do not have device power states defined. The only power states available are on
and off, controlled by the host bus controller. The CardBus specification is a superset of the PCCARD specification,
incorporating the power management specification for PCI bus. Power management capabilities query, state transition
commands and wake event reporting are identical.
A.2. Device Power States
1091
