Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
ACPI defines register-based interfaces to fixed hardware. CPU clock control and the power management timer are
defined as fixed hardware to reduce the performance impact of accessing this hardware, which will result in more
quickly reducing a thermal condition or extending battery life. If this logic were allowed to reside in PCI configuration
space, for example, several layers of drivers would be called to access this address space. This takes a long time and
will either adversely affect the power of the system (when trying to enter a low-power state) or the accuracy of the event
(when trying to get a time stamp value).
Access to fixed hardware by OSPM allows OSPM to control the wake process without having to load the entire OS.
For example, if PCI configuration space access is needed, the bus enumerator is loaded with all drivers used by the
enumerator. Defining these interfaces in fixed hardware at addresses with which OSPM can communicate without any
other driver’s assistance, allows OSPM to gather information prior to making a decision as to whether it continues
loading the entire OS or puts it back to sleep.
If elements of the OS fail, it may be possible for OSPM to access address spaces that need no driver support. In such
a situation, OSPM will attempt to honor fixed power button requests to transition the system to the G2 state. In the
case where OSPM event handler is no longer able to respond to power button events, the power button override feature
provides a back-up mechanism to unconditionally transition the system to the soft-off state.
4.3 Generic Hardware Programming Model
Although the fixed hardware programming model requires hardware registers to be defined at specific address locations,
the generic hardware programming model allows hardware registers to reside in most address spaces and provides
system OEMs with a wide degree of flexibility in the implementation of specific functions in hardware. OSPM directly
accesses the fixed hardware registers, but relies on OEM-provided ACPI Machine Language (AML) code to access
generic hardware registers.
AML code allows the OEM to provide the means for OSPM to control a generic hardware feature’s control and event
logic.
The section entitled “ACPI Source Language Reference” describes the ACPI Source Language (ASL)–a programming
language that OEMs use to create AML. The ASL language provides many of the operators found in common object-
oriented programming languages, but it has been optimized to enable the description of platform power management
and configuration hardware. An ASL compiler converts ASL source code to AML, which is a very compact machine
language that the ACPI AML code interpreter executes.
AML does two things:
• Abstracts the hardware from OSPM
• Buffers OEM code from the different OS implementations
One goal of ACPI is to allow the OEM “value added” hardware to remain basically unchanged in an ACPI configuration.
One attribute of value-added hardware is that it is all implemented differently. To enable OSPM to execute properly on
different types of value added hardware, ACPI defines higher level “control methods” that it calls to perform an action.
The OEM provides AML code, which is associated with control methods, to be executed by OSPM. By providing AML
code, generic hardware can take on almost any form.
Another important goal of ACPI is to provide OS independence. To do this, the OEM AML code has to execute the
same under any ACPI-compatible OS. ACPI allows for this by making the AML code interpreter part of OSPM. This
allows OSPM to take care of synchronizing and blocking issues specific to each particular OS.
The generic feature model is represented in the following block diagram. In this model the generic feature is described
to OSPM through AML code. This description takes the form of an object that sits in the ACPI Namespace associated
with the hardware to which it is adding value.
As an example of a generic hardware control feature, a platform might be designed such that the IDE HDD’s D3 state
has value-added hardware to remove power from the drive. The IDE drive would then have a reference to the AML
4.3. Generic Hardware Programming Model
54
