Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
The Desired Performance Register is optional only when OPSM indicates support for CPPC2 in the platform-wide
_OSC capabilities and the Autonomous Selection Enable field is encoded as an Integer with a value of 1.
8.4.6.1.2.4 Performance Reduction Tolerance Register
Optional Attribute:
Read/Write
Size:
8-32 bits
The Performance Reduction Tolerance Register is used by OSPM to convey the deviation below the Desired Perfor-
mance that is tolerable. It is expressed by OSPM as an absolute value on the performance scale. Performance Tolerance
must be less than or equal to the Desired Performance. If the platform supports the Time Window Register, the Perfor-
mance Reduction Tolerance conveys the minimal performance value that may be delivered on average over the Time
Window. If this register is not implemented, the platform must assume Performance Reduction Tolerance = Desired
Performance.
When Autonomous Selection is enabled, values written to the Performance Reduction Tolerance Register are ignored.
8.4.6.1.2.5 Time Window Register
Optional
Attribute:
Read/Write
Size:
8-32 bits
Units:
milliseconds
When Autonomous Selection is not enabled, OSPM may write a value to the Time Window Register to indicate a time
window over which the platform must provide the desired performance level (subject to the Performance Reduction
Tolerance). OSPM sets the time window when electing a new desired performance The time window represents the
minimum time duration for OSPM’s evaluation of the platform’s delivered performance (see Performance Counters
“Performance Counters” for details on how OSPM computes delivered performance). If OSPM evaluates delivered
performance over an interval smaller than the specified time window, it has no expectations of the performance delivered
by the platform. For any evaluation interval equal to or greater than the time window, the platform must deliver the
OSPM desired performance within the specified tolerance bound.
If OSPM specifies a time window of zero or if the platform does not support the time window register, the platform
must deliver performance within the bounds of Performance Reduction Tolerance irrespective of the duration of the
evaluation interval.
When Autonomous Selection is enabled, values written to the Time Window Register are ignored. Reads of the Time
Window register indicate minimum length of time (in ms) between successive reads of the platform’s performance
counters. If the Time Window register is not supported then there is no minimum time requirement between successive
reads of the platform’s performance counters.
8.4.6.1.2.6 OSPM Nominal Performance Register
Optional
Attribute:
Write
Size:
8-32 bits
The OSPM Nominal Performance Register conveys the desired nominal performance level at which the platform may
run. This register provides write ability for the Nominal Performance register and allows OSPM to request a lower
nominal performance level than what the platform has specified as being possible. The required semantics between
this register and other performance control registers (such as minimum, maximum, and desired) match the required
8.4. Declaring Processors
578
