Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
6.2.14 _PRT (PCI Routing Table)
PCI interrupts are inherently non-hierarchical. PCI interrupt pins are wired to interrupt inputs of the interrupt con-
trollers. The _PRT object provides a mapping from PCI interrupt pins to the interrupt inputs of the interrupt controllers.
The _PRT object is required under all PCI root bridges. _PRT evaluates to a package that contains a list of packages,
each of which describes the mapping of a PCI interrupt pin.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A Package containing variable-length list of PCI interrupt mapping packages, as described below
ò Note
The PCI function number in the Address field of the _PRT packages must be 0xFFFF, indicating “any” function
number or “all functions”.
The _PRT mapping packages have the fields listed in the table below.
Table 6.16: Mapping Fields
Field
Type
Description
Address
DWORD
The address of the device (uses the same format as _ADR).
Pin
Byte
The PCI pin number of the device (0-INTA, 1-INTB, 2-INTC, 3-INTD).
Source
NamePath Or
Byte
Name of the device that allocates the interrupt to which the above pin is connected.
The name can be a fully qualified path, a relative path, or a simple name segment that
utilizes the namespace search rules. Note: This field is a NamePath and not a String
literal, meaning that it should not be surrounded by quotes. If this field is the integer
constant Zero (or a Byte value of 0), then the interrupt is allocated from the global
interrupt pool.
Source
Index
DWORD
Index that indicates which resource descriptor in the resource template of the device
pointed to in the Source field this interrupt is allocated from. If the Source field is the
Byte value zero, then this field is the Global System Interrupt number to which the pin
is connected.
There are two ways that _PRT can be used. Typically, the interrupt input that a given PCI interrupt is on is configurable.
For example, a given PCI interrupt might be configured for either IRQ 10 or 11 on an 8259 interrupt controller. In this
model, each interrupt is represented in the ACPI namespace as a PCI Interrupt Link Device.
These objects have _PRS, _CRS, _SRS, and _DIS control methods to allocate the interrupt. Then, OSPM handles the
interrupts not as interrupt inputs on the interrupt controller, but as PCI interrupt pins. The driver looks up the device’s
pins in the _PRT to determine which device objects allocate the interrupts. To move the PCI interrupt to a different
interrupt input on the interrupt controller, OSPM uses _PRS, _CRS, _SRS, and _DIS control methods for the PCI
Interrupt Link Device.
In the second model, the PCI interrupts are hardwired to specific interrupt inputs on the interrupt controller and are not
configurable. In this case, the Source field in _PRT does not reference a device, but instead contains the value zero,
and the Source Index field contains the Global System Interrupt to which the PCI interrupt is hardwired.
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
407
