Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
6.1.12 _UID (Unique ID)
This object provides OSPM with a logical device ID that does not change across reboots. This object is optional, but
is required when the device has no other way to report a persistent unique device ID. The _UID must be unique across
all devices with either a common _HID or _CID. This is because a device needs to be uniquely identified to the OSPM,
which may match on either a _HID or a _CID to identify the device. The uniqueness match must be true regardless of
whether the OSPM uses the _HID or the _CID. OSPM typically uses the unique device ID to ensure that the device-
specific information, such as network protocol binding information, is remembered for the device even if its relative
location changes. For most integrated devices, this object contains a unique identifier.
In general, a _UID object evaluates to either a numeric value or a string. However, when defining an object with an
_HID of ACPI0007 (processor definition objects), the _UID object must return an integer. This integer is used as an
identifier in the MADT, PPTT and other tables to connect non-enumerable devices to a processor object. When a string
is used in these cases, there is no mechanism for connecting these devices.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer or String containing the Unique ID
6.2 Device Configuration Objects
This section describes objects that provide OSPM with device specific information and allow OSPM to configure device
operation and resource utilization.
OSPM uses device configuration objects to configure hardware resources for devices enumerated via ACPI. Device
configuration objects provide information about current and possible resource requirements, the relationship between
shared resources, and methods for configuring hardware resources.
ò Note
these objects must only be provided for devices that cannot be configured by any other hardware standard such as
PCI, PCMCIA, and soon.
When OSPM enumerates a device, it calls _PRS to determine the resource requirements of the device. It may also call
_CRS to find the current resource settings for the device. Using this information, the Plug and Play system determines
what resources the device should consume and sets those resources by calling the device’s _SRS control method.
In ACPI, devices can consume resources (for example, legacy keyboards), provide resources (for example, a PCI(e)
bridge describing (MM)IO apertures or bus ranges), or do both. For a given resource descriptor, the ResourceUsage
argument is to be used by OSPM to distinguish between consumer and producer roles. Unless otherwise specified,
resources for a device are assumed to be taken from the nearest matching resource above the device in the device
hierarchy.
Note: for legacy implementation reasons, OSPM must negotiate proper support for the ResourceUsage argument via
the relevant platform-wide _OSC capability.
Some resources, however, may be shared amongst several devices. To describe this, devices that share a resource
(resource consumers) must use the extended resource descriptors (0x7-0xA) described in Large Resource Data Type.
These descriptors point to a single device object (resource producer) that claims the shared resource in its _PRS. This
allows OSPM to clearly understand the resource dependencies in the system and move all related devices together if it
needs to change resources. Furthermore, it allows OSPM to allocate resources only to resource producers when devices
that consume that resource appear.
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
375
