Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.219 – continued from previous page
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
- Offsets[N]
4 * N
12
Each entry in this array contains the address offset of a
RHCT node relative to the start of the RHCT.
For example: The first element in the array can be the
offset between the start of the RHCT table and the start
of the appropriate ISA string node structure for this
hart.
Each hart shall have at least one element in this array
which points to an ISA node.
The offset shall not point to another Hart Info node
type.
5.3 ACPI Namespace
For all Definition Blocks, the system maintains a single hierarchical namespace that it uses to refer to objects. All
Definition Blocks load into the same namespace. Although this allows one Definition Block to reference objects and
data from another (thus enabling interaction), it also means that OEMs must take care to avoid any naming collisions.
For the most part, since the name space is hierarchical, typically the bulk of a dynamic definition file will load into a
different part of the hierarchy. The root of the name space and certain locations where interaction is being designed are
the areas in which extra care must be taken.
A name collision in an attempt to load a Definition Block is considered fatal. The contents of the namespace changes
only on a load operation.
The namespace is hierarchical in nature, with each name allowing a collection of names “below” it. The following
naming conventions apply to all names:
• All names are a fixed 32 bits.
• The first byte of a name is inclusive of: ‘A’-‘Z’, ‘_’, (0x41-0x5A, 0x5F).
• The remaining three bytes of a name are inclusive of: ‘A’-‘Z’, ‘0’-‘9’, ‘_’, (0x41-0x5A, 0x30-0x39, 0x5F).
• By convention, when an ASL compiler pads a name shorter than 4 characters, it is done so with trailing under-
scores (‘_’). See the language definition for AML NameSeg in the ASL Reference chapter.
• Names beginning with ‘_’ are reserved by this specification. Definition Blocks can only use names beginning
with ‘_’ as defined by this specification.
• A name proceeded with ‘' causes the name to refer to the root of the namespace (’' is not part of the 32-bit
fixed-length name).
• A name proceeded with ‘^’ causes the name to refer to the parent of the current namespace (‘^’ is not part of the
32-bit fixed-length name).
Except for names preceded with a ‘', the current namespace determines where in the namespace hierarchy a name
being created goes and where a name being referenced is found. A name is located by finding the matching name in the
current namespace, and then in the parent namespace. If the parent namespace does not contain the name, the search
continues recursively upwards until either the name is found or the namespace does not have a parent (the root of the
namespace). This indicates that the name is not found - unless the operation being performed is explicitly prepared for
failure in name resolution, this is considered an error and may cause the system to stop working.
5.3. ACPI Namespace
291
