Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Overview
The following provides a high-level overview of the Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI). To make it
easier to understand ACPI, this section focuses on broad and general statements about ACPI and does not discuss every
possible exception or detail about ACPI. The rest of the ACPI specification provides much greater detail about the inner
workings of ACPI than is discussed here, and is recommended reading for developers using ACPI.
History of ACPI
ACPI was developed through collaboration between Intel, Microsoft*, Toshiba*, HP*, and Phoenix* in the mid-1990s.
Before the development of ACPI, operating systems (OS) primarily used BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) interfaces
for power management and device discovery and configuration. This power management approach used the OS’s
ability to call the system BIOS natively for power management. The BIOS was also used to discover system devices
and load drivers based on probing input/output (I/O) and attempting to match the correct driver to the correct device
(plug and play). The location of devices could also be hard coded within the BIOS because the platform itself was
non-enumerable. These solutions were problematic in three key ways. First, the behavior of OS applications could
be negatively affected by the BIOS-configured power management settings, causing systems to go to sleep during
presentations or other inconvenient times. Second, the power management interface was proprietary on each system.
This required developers to learn how to configure power management for each individual system. Finally, the default
settings for various devices could also conflict with each other, causing devices to crash, behave erratically, or become
undiscoverable.
ACPI was developed to solve these problems and others.
What is ACPI?
ACPI can first be understood as an architecture-independent power management and configuration framework that
forms a subsystem within the host OS. This framework establishes a hardware register set to define power states (sleep,
hibernate, wake, etc). The hardware register set can accommodate operations on dedicated hardware and general
purpose hardware.
The primary intention of the standard ACPI framework and the hardware register set is to enable power management
and system configuration without directly calling firmware natively from the OS. ACPI serves as an interface layer
between the operating system and system firmware, as shown in figure i-1.
Fig. 1: Fig. i-1 - ACPI overview
ACPI defines two types of data structures that are shared between system firmware and the OS via the ACPI subsystem:
data tables and definition blocks (see figure i-2). These data structures are the primary communication mechanism
between the firmware and the OS. Data tables store raw data and are consumed by device drivers. Definition blocks
consist of byte code that is executable by an interpreter.
Upon initialization, the AML interpreter extracts byte code in the definition blocks as enumerable objects. This col-
lection of enumerable objects forms an OS construct called the ACPI namespace. Objects in the ACPI namespace can
CONTENTS
lxiii
