Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 18.14 – continued from previous page
Switch To Polling Thresh-
old Window
4
16
Indicates the time interval in milliseconds that Switch To
Polling Threshold Value interrupts must occur within before
OSPM switches the error source to polled mode.
Error Threshold Value
4
20
Indicates the number of error events that must occur within
Error Threshold Interval before OSPM processes the event as
an error condition.
Error Threshold Window
4
24
Indicates the time interval in milliseconds that Error Threshold
Value errors must occur within before OSPM processes the
event as an error condition.
18.3.2.10 IA-32 Architecture Deferred Machine Check
Processors implementing the IA-32 Instruction Set Architecture may report Deferred errors to OSPM. These errors
indicate that data has been corrupted but not consumed. The information in this table allows platform firmware to com-
municate key parameters of the deferred processor error reporting mechanism to OSPM, including whether Deferred
Machine Check (DMC) processing should be enabled.
Only one entry of this type is permitted in the HEST. OSPM applies the information specified in this entry to all
processors.
Table 18.15: IA-32 Architecture Deferred Machine Check Structure
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Type
2
0
11 - IA-32 Architecture Deferred Machine Check Structure.
Source Id
2
2
This value serves to uniquely identify this error source against
other error sources reported by the platform.
Reserved
2
4
Reserved.
Flags
1
6
Bit [0] - FIRMWARE_FIRST: If set, this bit indicates to the
OSPM that the interrupt handler from system firmware will
run first for this error source.
Bit [2] - GHES_ASSIST: If set, this bit indicates that
although OSPM is responsible for directly handling the error
(as expected when FIRMWARE_FIRST is not set), system
firmware may report additional information in the context of
the error reported by hardware. The additional information is
reported in a Generic Hardware Error Source structure with a
matching Related Source ID. See Section 18.7,
GHES_ASSIST Error Reporting. NOTE: If
FIRMWARE_FIRST is set, this bit is reserved.
All other bits must be set to zero.
continues on next page
18.3. Error Source Discovery
863
