Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 6.14 – continued from previous page
5:0
OS-Supported USB4 Version: The revision of the USB4 specification supported by OSPM.
0: USB4 Version 1.0
All other values are reserved.
31:6
Reserved
Table 6.15: OSPM USB Control Field
Bits
Field Name
Definition
0
USB Tunneling
OSPM requests control of USB tunneling across USB4 connections via the
OSPM-native Connection Manager. Once OSPM receives control of this fea-
ture, it must not relinquish support to the platform.
1
DisplayPort Tunnel-
ing
OSPM requests control of DisplayPort tunneling across USB4 connections via
the OSPM-native Connection Manager. Once OSPM receives control of this
feature, it must not relinquish support to the platform.
2
PCI Express Tunnel-
ing
OSPM requests control of PCI Express tunneling across USB4 connections via
the OSPM-native Connection Manager. Once OSPM receives control of this
feature, it must not relinquish support to the platform.
3
Inter-domain USB4
Inter-domain USB4 protocol: OSPM requests control of inter-domain USB4
connections via the OSPM-native Connection Manager. Once OSPM receives
control of this feature, it must not relinquish support to the platform.
31:4
Reserved
Return Value Information
Capabilities Buffer (Buffer): The platform acknowledges the Capabilities Buffer by returning a buffer of DWORDs of
the same length. Preserved bits in the Control Field convey control from the platform to OSPM, while masked/cleared
bits in the Control Field indicate that the platform does not permit OSPM control of the respective capability or feature.
6.2.13 _PRS (Possible Resource Settings)
This optional object evaluates to a byte stream that describes the possible resource settings for the device. When
describing a platform, specify a _PRS for all the configurable devices. Static (non-configurable) devices do not specify
a _PRS object. The information in this package is used by OSPM to select a conflict-free resource allocation without
user intervention. This method must not reference any operation regions that have not been declared available by a
_REG method.
The format of the data in a _PRS object follows the same format as the _CRS object (for more information, see Section
6.2.2).
If the device is disabled when _PRS is called, it must remain disabled.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A Buffer containing a Resource Descriptor byte stream
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
406
