CHAPTER
EIGHT
PROCESSOR CONFIGURATION AND CONTROL
This section describes the configuration and control of the processor’s power and performance states. The major con-
trols over the processors are:
• Processor power states: C0, C1, C2, C3, ... Cn
• Processor clock throttling
• Processor performance states: P0, P1, ... Pn
These controls are used in combination by OSPM to achieve the desired balance of the following sometimes conflicting
goals:
• Performance
• Power consumption and battery life
• Thermal requirements
• Noise-level requirements
Because the goals interact with each other, the operating software needs to implement a policy as to when and where
tradeoffs between the goals are to be made (see note below). For example the operating software would determine
when the audible noise of the fan is undesirable and would trade off that requirement for lower thermal requirements,
which can lead to lower processing performance. Each processor configuration and control interface is discussed in
the following sections along with how controls interacts with the various goals.
ò Note
A thermal warning leaves room for operating system tradeoffs (to start the fan or reduce performance), without
issuing a critical thermal alert.
8.1 Processor Power States
ACPI defines the power state of system processors while in the G0 working state as being either active executing or
sleeping (not executing) - see note below. Processor power states include are designated C0, C1, C2, C3, ...Cn. The
C0 power state is an active power state where the CPU executes instructions. The C1 through Cn power states are
processor sleeping states where the processor consumes less power and dissipates less heat than leaving the processor
in the C0 state. While in a sleeping state, the processor does not execute any instructions. Each processor sleeping
state has a latency associated with entering and exiting that corresponds to the power savings. In general, the longer the
entry/exit latency, the greater the power savings when in the state. To conserve power, OSPM places the processor into
one of its supported sleeping states when idle. While in the C0 state, ACPI allows the performance of the processor to
be altered through a defined “throttling” process and through transitions into multiple performance states (P-states). A
diagram of processor power states is provided below.
516
