Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
assume that the PWR1 power plane also powers an active line printer (LPT) port. Suppose the user terminates the
modem application, causing the COM port to be closed, and therefore causing the modem to be shut off (state D3). As
always, OSPM begins the state transition process by running the modem’s control method to switch the device to the
D3 power state. The control method causes the MDM_D3 line to be asserted. Notice that these registers might not
be in the device itself. For example, the control method could read the register that controls MDM_D3.The modem
controller now turns off all its major functions so that it draws little power, if any, from the PWR1 line. OSPM continues
by checking to see which power resources are no longer needed. Because the LPT port is still active, PWR1 is in use.
OSPM does not turn off the PWR1 resource. Because the COM port is closed, the same sequence of events take place
to put it in the D3 state, but the power resource is not turned off due to the LPT dependency.
3.4.5.3 Obtaining the Modem Power Status
Integrated modems have no batteries; the only power status information for the device is the power state of the modem.
To determine the modem’s current power state (D0-D3), OSPM runs a control method (_PSC) supplied in the modem’s
entry in the Differentiated Definition Block. This control method reads from the necessary registers to determine the
modem’s power state.
3.4.5.4 Waking the System
As indicated in the modem capabilities, this modem can wake the machine from any device power state. Before putting
the system in a Sleep or LPI state, the OS enables wake on any devices that applications have requested to be able to
wake the system. Then, it chooses the deepest sleeping or LPI state that can still provide the power resources necessary
to allow all enabled wake devices to wake the system. Next, the OS puts each of those devices in the appropriate power
state. In this case, the OS puts the modem in the D3 state because it supports wake from that state. Finally, the OS puts
the system into a sleep or LPI state.
Waking the system via modem starts with the modem’s phone interface asserting its ring indicate (RI) line when it
detects a ring on the phone line. This line is routed to the core logic to generate a wake event. The chipset then wakes
the system and the hardware will eventually pass control back to the OS (the wake mechanism differs depending on the
sleeping state, or LPI). After the OS is running, it puts the device in the D0 state and begins handling interrupts from
the modem to process the event.
3.5 Processor Power Management
To further save power in the Working state, the OS puts the CPU into low-power states (C1, C2, and C3) when the OS
is idle. In these low-power states, the CPU does not run any instructions, and wakes when an interrupt, such as the OS
scheduler’s timer interrupt, occurs.
The OS determines how much time is being spent in its idle loop by reading the ACPI Power Management Timer. This
timer runs at a known, fixed frequency and allows the OS to precisely determine idle time. Depending on this idle time
estimate, the OS will put the CPU into different quality low-power states (which vary in power and latency) when it
enters its idle loop.
The CPU states are defined in detail in Processor Configuration and Control
3.5. Processor Power Management
39
