Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 12.8: Burst Enable Command (2 Bytes)
Byte #1
(Command byte Header)
No Interrupt
Byte #2
(Burst acknowledge byte)
Interrupt on OBF=1
Table 12.9: Burst Disable Command (1 Byte)
Byte #1
(Command byte Header)
Interrupt on IBF=0
12.7 Embedded Controller Interfacing Algorithms
To initiate communications with the embedded controller, OSPM or system management handler acquires ownership
of the interface. This ownership is acquired through the use of the Global Lock, or is owned by default by OSPM as a
non-shared resource (and the Global Lock is not required for accessibility).
After ownership is acquired, the protocol always consists of the passing of a command byte. The command byte will
indicate the type of action to be taken. Following the command byte, zero or more data bytes can be exchanged in either
direction. The data bytes are defined according to the command byte that is transferred.
The embedded controller also has two status bits that indicate whether the registers have been read. This is used to
ensure that the host or embedded controller has received data from the embedded controller or host. When the host
writes data to the command or data register of the embedded controller, the input buffer flag (IBF) in the status register
is set within 1 microsecond. When the embedded controller reads this data from the input buffer, the input buffer flag
is reset. When the embedded controller writes data into the output buffer, the output buffer flag (OBF) in the status
register is set. When the host processor reads this data from the output buffer, the output buffer flag is reset.
12.8 Embedded Controller Description Information
Certain aspects of the embedded controller’s operation have OEM-definable values associated with them. The following
is a list of values that are defined in the software layers of the ACPI specification:
• Status flag indicating whether the interface requires the use of the Global Lock.
• Bit position of embedded controller interrupt in general-purpose status register.
• Decode address for command/status register.
• Decode address for data register.
• Base address and query value of any EC-SMBus controller.
For implementation details of the above information, see Defining an Embedded Controller Device in ACPI Namespace
and Defining an EC SMBus Host Controller in ACPI Namespace.
An embedded controller will require the inclusion of the GLK method in its ACPI namespace if potentially contentious
accesses to device resources are performed by non-OS code. See _GLK (Global Lock) for details about the _GLK
method.
12.7. Embedded Controller Interfacing Algorithms
769
