Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
17.2 System Locality
A collection of components that are presented to OSPM as a Symmetrical Multi-Processing (SMP) unit belong to the
same System Locality, also known as a Proximity Domain. The granularity of a System Locality is typically at the
NUMA Node level although the granularity can also be at the sub-NUMA node level or the processor, memory and
host bridge level.
A System Locality is reported to the OSPM using Proximity Domain entries in the System Resource Affinity Table
(SRAT), or using _PXM (Proximity) methods in the ACPI namespace. If OSPM only needs to know a near/far distinc-
tion among the System Localities, comparing Proximity Domain values is sufficient. See the System Resource Affinity
Table (SRAT) and _PXM (Proximity) sections for more information.
OSPM makes no assumptions about the proximity or nearness of different proximity domains. The difference between
two integers representing separate proximity domains does not imply distance between the proximity domains (in other
words, proximity domain 1 is not assumed to be closer to proximity domain 0 than proximity domain 6).
17.2.1 System Resource Affinity Table Definition
The optional System Resource Affinity Table (SRAT) provides the boot time description of the processor and memory
ranges belonging to a system locality. OSPM will consume the SRAT only at boot time. For any devices not in the
SRAT, OSPM should use _PXM (Proximity) for them or their ancestors that are hot-added into the system after boot
up.
The SRAT describes the system locality that all processors and memory present in a system belong to at system boot.
This includes memory that can be hot-added (that is memory that can be added to the system while it is running, without
requiring a reboot). OSPM can use this information to optimize the performance of NUMA architecture systems.
For example, OSPM could utilize this information to optimize allocation of memory resources and the scheduling of
software threads.
17.2.2 System Resource Affinity Update
Dynamic migration of the devices may cause the relative system resource affinity information (if the optional SRAT is
present) to change. If this occurs, the System Resource Affinity Update notification (Notify event of type 0x0D) may
be generated by the platform to a device at a point on the device tree that represents a System Resource Affinity. This
indicates to OSPM to invoke the _PXM (Proximity) object of the notified device to update the resource affinity.
17.3 System Locality Distance Information
Optionally, OSPM may further optimize a NUMA architecture system using information about the relative memory
latency distances among the System Localities. This may be useful if the distance between multiple system localities
is significantly different. In this case, a simple near/far distinction may be insufficient. This information is contained
in the optional System Locality information Table, and is returned from the evaluation of the _SLI object.
The SLIT is a matrix that describes the relative distances between all System Localities. To include devices that are
not in the System Resource Affinity Table (SRAT), support for the _PXM object is required. The Proximity Domain
values from SRAT, or the values returned by the _PXM objects are used as the row and column indices of the matrix.
Implementation Note: The size of the SLIT is determined by the largest Proximity Domain value used in the system.
Hence, to minimize the size of the SLIT, the Proximity Domain values assigned by the system firmware should be in
the range 0, ..., N-1, where N is the number of System Localities. If Proximity Domain values are not packed into this
range, the SLIT will still work, but more memory will have to be allocated to store the “Entries” portion of the SLIT
for the matrix.
17.2. System Locality
841
