Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
ò Note
Compatibility Note: The use of a String with DerefOf was first introduced in ACPI 2.0.
19.6.31 Device (Declare Device Package)
Syntax:
Device (DeviceName) {TermList}
Arguments
Creates a Device object of name DeviceName, which represents a processor, a bus or a device, or any other similar
hardware. Device opens a name scope.
Description
A Device Package is one of the basic ways the Differentiated Definition Block describes the hardware devices in the
system to the operating software. Each Device Package is defined somewhere in the hierarchical namespace corre-
sponding to that device’s location in the system. Within the namespace of the device are other names that provide
information and control of the device, along with any sub-devices that in turn describe sub-devices, and so on.
For any device, the platform runtime firmware provides only information that is added to the device in a non-hardware
standard manner. This type of value-added function is expressible in the ACPI Definition Block such that operating
software can use the function.
The platform runtime firmware supplies Device Objects only for devices that are obtaining some system-added func-
tion outside the device’s normal capabilities and for any Device Object required to fill in the tree for such a device. For
example, if the system includes a PCI device (integrated or otherwise) with no additional functions such as power man-
agement, the platform runtime firmware would not report such a device; however, if the system included an integrated
ISA device below the integrated PCI device (device is an ISA bridge), then the system would include a Device Package
for the ISA device with the minimum feature being added being the ISA device’s ID and configuration information and
the parent PCI device, because it is required to get the ISA Device Package placement in the namespace correct.
The device object list is encoded as TermList , so that rather than describing a static device object list, it is possible to
describe a dynamic device object list according to the system settings. see Section 5.4.2.
Example
The following block of ASL sample code shows a nested use of Device objects to describe an IDE controller connected
to the root PCI bus:
Device (IDE0) { // primary controller
Name (_ADR, 0) // put PCI Address (device/function) here
// define region for IDE mode register
OperationRegion (PCIC, PCI_Config, 0x50, 0x10)
Field (PCIC, AnyAcc, NoLock, Preserve) {
...
}
Device (PRIM) { // Primary adapter
Name (_ADR, 0) // Primary adapter = 0
...
Method (_STM, 2) {
(continues on next page)
19.6. ASL Operator Reference
965
