Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
16.1.4 S4 Sleeping State
The S4 sleeping state is the lowest-power, longest wake-latency sleeping state supported by ACPI. In order to reduce
power to a minimum, it is assumed that the hardware platform has powered off all devices. Because this is a sleeping
state, the platform context is maintained. Depending on how the transition into the S4 sleeping state occurs, the respon-
sibility for maintaining system context changes. S4 supports two entry mechanisms: OS initiated and platform runtime
firmware-initiated. The OSPM-initiated mechanism is similar to the entry into the S1-S3 sleeping states; OSPM driver
writes the SLP_TYPx fields and sets the SLP_EN bit, or writes the HW-reduced ACPI Sleep Type value for S3 and
the SLP_EN bit to the Sleep Control Register. The platform runtime firmware-initiated mechanism occurs by OSPM
transferring control to the platform runtime firmware by writing the S4BIOS_REQ value to the SMI_CMD port, and
is not supported on HW-reduced ACPI platforms.
In OSPM-initiated S4 sleeping state, OSPM is responsible for saving all system context. Before entering the S4 state,
OSPM will save context of all memory as specified in System Address Map Interfaces.
Upon waking, OSPM shall then restore the system context. When OSPM re-enumerates buses coming out of the S4
sleeping state, it will discover any devices that have come and gone, and configure devices as they are turned on.
In the platform runtime firmware-initiated S4 sleeping state, OSPM is responsible for the same system context as
described in the S3 sleeping state (platform runtime firmware restores the memory and some chip set context). The
S4BIOS transition transfers control to the platform runtime firmware, allowing it to save context to non-volatile memory
(such as a disk partition).
16.1.4.1 Operating System-Initiated S4 Transition
If OSPM supports OSPM-initiated S4 transition, it will not generate a platform firmware-initiated S4 transition. Plat-
forms that support the platform firmware-initiated S4 transition also support OSPM-initiated S4 transition.
OSPM-initiated S4 transition is initiated by OSPM by saving system context, writing the appropriate values to the
SLP_TYPx register(s), and setting the SLP_EN bit, or writes the HW-reduced ACPI Sleep Type value for S4 and the
SLP_EN bit to the Sleep Control Register. Upon exiting the S4 sleeping state, the platform boot firmware restores the
chipset to its POST condition, updates the hardware signature (described later in this section), and passes control to
OSPM through a normal boot process.
When the platform boot firmware builds the ACPI tables, it generates a hardware signature for the system. If the
hardware configuration has changed during an OS-initiated S4 transition and it changes the content or structure of the
ACPI tables, the platform boot firmware updates the hardware signature in the FACS table as described in Section
5.2.10 (Firmware ACPI Control Structure (FACS)).
Upon waking, in order to locate the hardware signature, the physical address of the RSDP must be reacquired via
methods described in 5.2.5.1 (Finding the RSDP on IA-PC Systems) or 5.2.5.2 (Finding the RSDP on UEFI Enable
Systems) and therefore it must not be assumed that the FACS and its Hardware Signature would be located in the same
physical memory address as the prior boot.
16.1.4.2 The S4BIOS Transition
This transition is not supported on HW-reduced ACPI platforms. On other systems, the platform runtime firmware-
initiated S4 transition begins with OSPM writing the S4BIOS_REQ value into the SMI_CMD port (as specified in the
FADT). Once gaining control, the platform runtime firmware then saves the appropriate memory and chip set context,
and then places the platform into the S4 state (power off to all devices).
In the FACS memory table, there is the S4BIOS_F bit that indicates hardware support for the platform runtime firmware-
initiated S4 transition. If the hardware platform supports the S4BIOS state, it sets the S4BIOS_F flag within the FACS
memory structure prior to booting the OS. If the S4BIOS_F flag in the FACS table is set, this indicates that OSPM
can request the platform runtime firmware to transition the platform into the S4BIOS sleeping state by writing the
S4BIOS_REQ value (found in the FADT) to the SMI_CMD port (identified by the SMI_CMD value in the FADT).
16.1. Sleeping States
829
