Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5.2.30.1 PDTT PCC Sub Channel
The PDTT PCC Sub Channel Identifier value provided by the platform in this field is index in the PCCT table (as shown
in the picture below). PCC Communications Subspace Structure for PDTT can use any type of PCC communication
subspace. PCC Sub Channel entry in PCCT table identified by the PDTT PCC Sub Channel Identifier will have the
information on type of PCC Sub channel definition associated with the debug trigger. The PDTT references its PCC
Subspace in a given platform by this identifier, as shown in Table 5.183.
Fig. 5.12 shows how the right PCC subspace entry associated with a debug trigger in PDTT can be found from the
PCCT table.
Fig. 5.12: Mapping a PDTT Debug Trigger Table Entry to a PCCT PCC Subspace
5.2.30.1.1 Using PCC registers
A platform debug trigger can choose to use any type of PCC subspace. The definition of the shared memory region for
a debug trigger will follow the definition of shared memory region associated with the PCC subspace type used for the
debug trigger. For example if a platform debug trigger chooses to use Generic PCC communication subspace (Type
0), then it will use the Generic Communication Channel shared memory region described in Section 14.2. OSPM will
write PCC registers by filling in the register values in PCC sub channel space. If a platform debug trigger choose to
use a PCC communication subchannel that uses a Generic Communication shared memory region then it will write
the debug trigger command in the command field. See Table 5.183 for allowed debug commands. All other command
values are reserved.
The platform can also use the PCC sub channel Type 5 for debug a trigger. In this case, OSPM will follow the PCC
sub channel definition and write to the doorbell register to trigger a debug log. A platform debug trigger using PCC
Communication sub channel Type 5 will use the shared memory region to share vendor-specific debug information.
The following table defines the Type-5 PCC channel shared memory region definition for debug trigger.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
262
