Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
13.2.2 Declaring SMBus Devices
The SMBus, as defined by the SMBus Specifications <http://smbus.org/specs/>, is not an enumerable bus. As a re-
sult, an SMBus 1.0-compatible SMB-HC driver cannot discover child devices on the SMBus and load the appropriate
corresponding device drivers. As such, SMBus 1.0-compatible devices are declared in the ACPI namespace, in like
manner to other motherboard devices, and enumerated by OSPM.
The SMBus 2.0 specification adds mechanisms enabling device enumeration on the bus while providing compatibil-
ity with existing devices. ACPI defines and associates the “ACPI0005” HID value with an EC-based SMBus 2.0-
compatible host controller. OSPM will enumerate SMBus 1.0-compatible devices when declared in the namespace
under an SMBus 2.0-compatible host controller.
The responsibility for the definition of ACPI namespace objects, required by an SMBus 2.0-compatible host controller
driver to enumerate non-bus-enumerable devices, is relegated to the Smart Battery System Implementers Forum. See
the SMBus Specifications at the link mentioned above.
Starting in ACPI 2.0, _ADR is used to associate SMBus devices with their lowest SMBus slave address.
13.2.3 Declaring SMBus Operation Regions
Each SMBus operation region definition identifies a single SMBus slave address. Operation regions are defined only
for those SMBus devices that need to be accessed from AML. As with other regions, SMBus operation regions are
only accessible via the Field term (see Declaring SMBus Devices).
This interface models each SMBus device as having a 256-byte linear address range. Each byte offset within this
range corresponds to a single command value (for example, byte offset 0x12 equates to command value 0x12), with
a maximum of 256 command values. By doing this, SMBus address spaces appear linear and can be processed in a
manner similar to the other address space types.
The syntax for the OperationRegion term (from OperationRegion (Declare Operation Region)) is described below.
OperationRegion (
RegionName,
// NameString
RegionSpace,
// RegionSpaceKeyword
Offset,
// TermArg=>Integer
Length
// TermArg=>Integer
)
Where:
• RegionName specifies a name for this slave device (for example, “SBD0”).
• RegionSpace must be set to SMBus (operation region type value 0x04).
• Offset is a word-sized value specifying the slave address and initial command value offset for the target device.
The slave address is stored in the high byte and the command value offset is stored in the low byte. For example,
the value 0x4200 would be used for an SMBus device residing at slave address 0x42 with an initial command
value offset of zero (0).
• Length is set to the 0x100 (256), representing the maximum number of possible command values, for regions
with an initial command value offset of zero (0). The difference of these two values is used for regions with
non-zero offsets. For example, a region with an Offset value of 0x4210 would have a corresponding Length of
0xF0 (0x100 minus 0x10).
For example, the Smart Battery Subsystem (illustrated below) consists of the Smart Battery Charger at slave address
0x09, the Smart Battery System Manager at slave address 0x0A, and one or more batteries (multiplexed) at slave
address 0x0B. (Notice that Figure 13-2 represents the logical connection of a Smart Battery Subsystem. The actual
13.2. Accessing the SMBus from ASL Code
788
