Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
18.3.2.8 Generic Hardware Error Source version 2 (GHESv2 - Type 10)
This is an extension to the Generic Hardware Error source structure (Section 18.3.2.7 ) for hardware-reduced platforms
that rely on RAS controllers for generation of generic error records. A RAS controller may be a hardware or firmware
entity that may execute in parallel with OS execution (e.g., a RAS controller may be firmware running on an independent
microcontroller, or it could be in the form of platform firmware that runs on one of the application processors). Platforms
with RAS controllers must prevent concurrent accesses to the Error Status Block (i.e., the RAS controller must not
overwrite the Error Status Block before the OS has completed reading it). The table below provides a high-level
example of how the RAS controller might interact with the OS.
Fig. 18.1: APEI error flow example with external RAS controller
For GHESv2 error sources, the OSPM must acknowledge the consumption of the Error Status Block by writing to the
“Read Ack Register” listed in the GHESv2 structure (described in the following table). For platforms that describe
multiple Generic Hardware Error Sources, the platform must provide a unique memory region for the Error Status
Block of each error source.
Table 18.13: Generic Hardware Error Source version 2 (GHESv2)
Structure
Name
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Type
2
0
10 - Generic Hardware Error Source (version 2) structure
Equivalent fields in Table
18.10
62
2
Same format as fields in Table 18.10, starting from Source Id
and ending in Error Status Block Length (inclusive).
Read Ack Register
12
64
Generic Address Structure as defined in Table 18.10. This field
specifies the location of the Read Ack Register used to notify
the RAS controller that OSPM has processed the Error Sta-
tus Block. The OSPM writes the bit(s) specified in Read Ack
Write, while preserving the bit(s) specified in Read Ack Pre-
serve.
Read Ack Preserve
8
76
Contains a mask of bits to preserve when writing the Read Ack
register.
continues on next page
18.3. Error Source Discovery
860
