Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
needs to directly manage the ACPI Hardware Register Blocks, as well as the physical address of the DSDT,
which contains other platform implementation and configuration details. An OEM must provide an FADT to
an ACPI-compatible OS in the RSDT/XSDT. The OS always inserts the namespace information defined in the
Differentiated Definition Block in the DSDT into the ACPI Namespace at system boot time, and the OS never
removes it.
Fixed Features
A set of features offered by an ACPI interface. The ACPI specification places restrictions on where and how
the hardware programming model is generated. All fixed features, if used, are implemented as described in this
specification so that OSPM can directly access the fixed feature registers.
Fixed Feature Events
A set of events that occur at the ACPI interface when a paired set of status and event bits in the fixed feature
registers are set at the same time. When a fixed feature event occurs, a system control interrupt (SCI is raised.
For ACPI fixed feature events, OSPM (or an ACPI-aware driver) acts as the event handler.
Fixed Feature Registers
A set of hardware registers in fixed feature register space at specific address locations in system I/O address space.
ACPI defines register blocks for fixed features (each register block gets a separate pointer from the FADT). For
more information, see ACPI Hardware Features.
General-Purpose Event Registers
The general-purpose event registers contain the event programming model for generic features. All general-
purpose events generate SCIs.
Generic Feature
A generic feature of a platform is value-added hardware implemented through control methods and general-
purpose events.
Generic Interrupt Controller (GIC)
An interrupt controller architecture for ARM processor-based systems.
Global System Status
Global system states apply to the entire system, and are visible to the user. The various global system states are
labeled G0 through G3 in the ACPI specification. For more information, see Global System State Definitions.
Host Processor
A host processor is the primary processing unit in a platform, traditionally called a Central Processing Unit
(CPU), now also sometimes referred to as an Application Processing Unit (APU), or a System on Chip (SoC).
This is the processing unit on which the primary operating system (and/or hypervisor), as well as user applications
run. This is the processor that is responsible for loading and executing the Host Processor Boot Firmware. This
term and “Boot Processor” should be considered synonyms for this particular text clean-up effort (i.e., making
them consistent should probably be part of a different ECR, if needed).
Host Processor Boot Firmware
Generic term used to describe firmware loaded and executed by the Host Processor which provides basic boot
capabilities for a platform. This class of firmware is a reference to Legacy BIOS and UEFI, which were some-
times referred to as System BIOS. Where the distinction between Legacy BIOS and UEFI is not important, the
term Host Processor Boot Firmware will be used. Where the distinction is important, it will be referenced ap-
propriately. Expansion ROM firmware may also be considered as part of the Host Processor Boot Firmware.
Expansion ROM Firmware may be embedded as part of the Host Processor Boot Firmware, or may be separate
from the Host Processor Boot Firmware (e.g., loaded from an add-in card).
Host Processor Runtime Firmware
Host processor runtime firmware is any runtime firmware which executes on the host processor.
Ignored Bits
Some unused bits in ACPI hardware registers are designated as “ignored” in the ACPI specification. Ignored
2.1. General ACPI Terminology
19
