Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
(continued from previous page)
}
}
// end of \\_SB scope
6.3 Device Insertion, Removal, and Status Objects
The objects defined in this section provide mechanisms for handling dynamic insertion and removal of devices and for
determining device and notification processing status.
Device insertion and removal objects are also used for docking and undocking mobile platforms to and from a peripheral
expansion dock. These objects give information about whether or not devices are present, which devices are physically
in the same device (independent of which bus the devices live on), and methods for controlling ejection or interlock
mechanisms.
The system is more stable when removable devices have a software-controlled, VCR-style ejection mechanism instead
of a “surprise-style” ejection mechanism. In this system, the eject button for a device does not immediately remove
the device, but simply signals the operating system. OSPM then shuts down the device, closes open files, unloads the
driver, and sends a command to the hardware to eject the device.
1. If the device is physically inserted while the system is in the working state (in other words, hot insertion), the
hardware generates a general-purpose event.
2. The control method servicing the event uses the Notify(device,0) command to inform OSPM of the bus that the
new device is on or the device object for the new device. If the Notify command points to the device object for
the new device, the control method must have changed the device’s status returned by _STA to indicate that the
device is now present. The performance of this process can be optimized by having the object of the Notify as
close as possible, in the namespace hierarchy, to where the new device resides. The Notify command can also
be used from the _WAK control method (see Section 7.4.5) to indicate device changes that may have occurred
while the system was sleeping. For more information about the Notify command, see Section 5.6.6.
3. OSPM uses the identification and configuration objects to identify, configure, and load a device driver for the
new device and any devices found below the device in the hierarchy.
4. If the device has a _LCK control method, OSPM may later run this control method to lock the device.
The new device referred to in step 2 need not be a single device, but could be a whole tree of devices. For example, it
could point to the PCI-PCI bridge docking connector. OSPM will then load and configure all devices it found below
that bridge. The control method can also point to several different devices in the hierarchy if the new devices do not all
live under the same bus. (in other words, more than one bus goes through the connector).
For removing devices, ACPI supports both hot removal (system is in the S0 state), and warm removal (system is in a
sleep state: S1-S4). This is done using the _EJx control methods. Devices that can be ejected include an _EJx control
method for each sleeping state the device supports (a maximum of 2 _EJx objects can be listed). For example, hot
removal devices would supply an _EJ0; warm removal devices would use one of _EJ1-EJ4. These control methods are
used to signal the hardware when an eject is to occur.
The sequence of events for dynamically removing a device goes as follows:
1. The eject button is pressed and generates a general-purpose event. (If the system was in a sleeping state, it should
wake the system).
2. The control method for the event uses the Notify(device, 3) command to inform OSPM which specific device
the user has requested to eject. Notify does not need to be called for every device that may be ejected, but for
the top-level device. Any child devices in the hierarchy or any ejection-dependent devices on this device (as
described by _EJD, below) are automatically removed.
3. The OS shuts down and unloads devices that will be removed.
6.3. Device Insertion, Removal, and Status Objects
416
