Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 14.2: Communication flow for notifications on Responder subspaces
5. Clears the platform interrupt. This is required if the interrupt is described as being a level triggered through the
Platform Interrupt flags, and Platform Interrupt Ack register address, and associated masks are provided by the
subspace PCCT entry (see Table 14.7).
6. Optionally checks the command complete bit is clear using the Command Complete check register and masks.
If the platform interrupt is shared among multiple subspaces, this can be used to determine if the interrupt was
targeted to this subspace. Note: Type 4 subspaces use a single Command Complete bit. The PCCT structures
describing type 4 subspaces use masks and an address to describe how to check the bit. OSPM combines the
content of the Command Complete check register, through a bitwise AND of the Command Complete check
mask. A zero value indicates that the Command Complete bit is clear.
7. Processes the notification command.
8. Sets the Command Complete bit using the Command Complete update register and masks. Note: setting the
Command Complete bit is done through the Command Complete update register, which can differ in address
from the Command Complete check register. In case the Command Complete update register differs in address
from the Command Complete check register, the platform must ensure that writes to the Command Complete
update register affect the Command Complete check register bits as specified. To reduce platform complexity, it
is therefore recommended that the Command Complete update register is the same as the Command Complete
check register.
To set the Command Complete bit, the content of the Command Complete update register is combined through a bitwise
AND with the Command Complete update preserve mask. The result is then combined through a bitwise inclusive OR
with the Command Complete update set mask and the result is written back to the Command Complete update register.
As a result, the bits which are neither set in the Command Complete update set mask nor in the Command Complete
update preserve mask are implicitly cleared in the Command Complete update register.
9. Rings the doorbell using the doorbell register and masks. This is required if the doorbell ring was requested by
the platform in step 2 above. This also requires that the PCCT entry for the subspace has a non-zero doorbell
register address.
14.6. Platform Notification
813
