Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.37 – continued from previous page
Enabled
1
0
If this bit is set, the processor is ready for use. If this bit is clear
and the Online Capable bit is set, the system supports enabling
this processor during OS runtime. If this bit is clear and the
Online Capable bit is also clear, this processor is unusable, and
the operating system support will not attempt to use it.
Performance
Interrupt
Mode
1
1
0 - Level-triggered | 1 - Edge-Triggered
VGIC Maintenance Inter-
rupt Mode Flags
1
2
0 - Level-triggered | 1 - Edge-Triggered
Online Capable
1
3
The information conveyed by this bit depends on the value of
the Enabled bit. If the Enabled bit is set, this bit is reserved and
must be zero. Otherwise, if this bit is set, the system supports
enabling this processor later during OS runtime.
GICR Non-coherent
1
4
On systems supporting GICv3 and above, this field specifies
if the GIC Redistributor described in the associated GICC
structure is cache coherent with the CPU. The values for this
flag are:
0x0: This Redistributor is fully coherent. OSPM does not
need to perform any Cache Maintenance on the associated
tables in memory if the appropriate cacheability and
shareability attributes have been configured in the
Redistributor.
0x1: This Redistributor is not coherent. OSPM needs to
perform cache maintenance on the associated tables in
memory.
If all the GIC Redistributors are in the always-on power
domain, then the GICR structure is used to describe this
Redistributor and this field must be ignored by OSPM.
Note: All GIC CPU Interface structures in the system must
have the same value for this flag.
Reserved
27
5
Must be zero.
ò Note
All processors are assumed to be always physically present
5.2.12.15 GIC Distributor (GICD) Structure
ACPI represents all wired interrupts as “flat” values known as Global System Interrupts (GSIs) as described in Section
5.2.13 . On ARM-based systems the Generic Interrupt Controller (GIC) manages interrupts on the system. Each
interrupt is identified in the GIC by an interrupt identifier (INTID). ACPI GSIs map one to one to GIC INTIDs for
peripheral interrupts, whether shared (SPI) or private (PPI). The GIC distributor structure describes the GIC distributor
to the OS. One, and only one, GIC distributor structure must be present in the MADT for an ARM based system.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
146
