CHAPTER
TWO
DEFINITION OF TERMS
This specification uses a particular set of terminology, defined in this section. This section has three parts:
General ACPI terms are defined and presented alphabetically.
The ACPI global system states (working, sleeping, soft off, and mechanical off) are defined. Global system states apply
to the entire system, and are visible to the user.
The ACPI device power states are defined. Device power states are states of particular devices; as such, they are
generally not visible to the user. For example, some devices may be in the off state even though the system as a whole
is in the working state. Device states apply to any device on any bus.
2.1 General ACPI Terminology
Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI)
As defined in this document, ACPI is a method for describing hardware interfaces in terms abstract enough to
allow flexible and innovative hardware implementations and concrete enough to allow shrink-wrap OS code to
use such hardware interfaces.
ACPI Hardware
Computer hardware with the features necessary to support OSPM and with the interfaces to those features de-
scribed using the Description Tables as specified by this document.
ACPI Namespace
A hierarchical tree structure in OS-controlled memory that contains named objects. These objects may be data
objects, control method objects, bus/device package objects, and so on. The OS dynamically changes the contents
of the namespace at run-time by loading definition blocks from the ACPI Tables that reside in the ACPI system
firmware. All the information in the ACPI Namespace comes from the Differentiated System Description Table
(DSDT), which contains the Differentiated Definition Block, and one or more other definition blocks.
ACPI Machine Language (AML)
Pseudo-code for a virtual machine supported by an ACPI-compatible OS and in which ACPI control methods and
objects are written. The AML encoding definition is provided in section 19, “ACPI Machine Language (AML)
Specification.”
Add-in Card
A generic term used to refer to any device which can be inserted or removed from a platform through a connection
bus, such as PCI. Add-in cards are typically inserted within a platform’s physical enclosure, rather than residing
physically external to a platform. An add-in card will have its own devices and associated firmware, and may
have its own Expansion ROM Firmware.
Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC)
An interrupt controller architecture commonly found on Intel Architecture-based 32-bit PC systems. The APIC
16
