Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
4.6 The ACPI Hardware Model
The ACPI hardware model is defined to allow OSPM to sequence the platform between the various global system
states (G0-G3) as illustrated in the following figure by manipulating the defined interfaces. When first powered on,
the platform finds itself in the global system state G3 or “Mechanical Off.” This state is defined as one where power
consumption is very close to zero–the power plug has been removed; however, the real-time clock device still runs off
a battery. The G3 state is entered by any power failure, defined as accidental or user-initiated power loss.
The G3 state transitions into either the G0 working state or the Legacy state depending on what the platform supports.
If the platform is an ACPI-only platform, then it allows a direct boot into the G0 working state by always returning
the status bit SCI_EN set (1) (for more information, see Legacy/ACPI Select and the SCI Interrupt). If the platform
supports both legacy and ACPI operations (which is necessary for supporting a non-ACPI OS), then it would always
boot into the Legacy state (illustrated by returning the SCI_EN clear (0)). In either case, a transition out of the G3 state
requires a total boot of OSPM.
The Legacy system state is the global state where a non-ACPI OS executes. This state can be entered from either the G3
“Mechanical Off,” the G2 “Soft Off,” or the G0 “Working” states only if the hardware supports both Legacy and ACPI
modes. In the Legacy state, the ACPI event model is disabled (no SCIs are generated) and the hardware uses legacy
power management and configuration mechanisms. While in the Legacy state, an ACPI-compliant OS can request a
transition into the G0 working state by performing an ACPI mode request. OSPM performs this transition by writing
the ACPI_ENABLE value to the SMI_CMD, which generates an event to the hardware to transition the platform into
ACPI mode. When hardware has finished the transition, it sets the SCI_EN bit and returns control back to OSPM.
While in the G0 “working state,” OSPM can request a transition to Legacy mode by writing the ACPI_DISABLE value
to the SMI_CMD register, which results in the hardware going into legacy mode and resetting the SCI_EN bit LOW
(for more information, see Legacy/ACPI Select and the SCI Interrupt).
The G0 “Working” state is the normal operating environment of an ACPI system. In this state different devices are
dynamically transitioning between their respective power states (D0, D1, D2, D3hot, or D3) and processors are dynam-
ically transitioning between their respective power states (C0, C1, C2 or C3). In this state, OSPM can make a policy
decision to place the platform into the system G1 “sleeping” state. The platform can only enter a single sleeping state at
a time (referred to as the global G1 state); however, the hardware can provide up to four system sleeping states that have
different power and exit latencies represented by the S1, S2, S3, or S4 states. When OSPM decides to enter a sleeping
state it picks the most appropriate sleeping state supported by the hardware (OS policy examines what devices have
enabled wake events and what sleeping states these support). OSPM initiates the sleeping transition by enabling the
appropriate wake events and then programming the SLP_TYPx field with the desired sleeping state and then setting
the SLP_ENx bit. The system will then enter a sleeping state; when one of the enabled wake events occurs, it will
transition the system back to the working state (for more information, see Waking and Sleeping).
Another global state transition option while in the G0 “working” state is to enter the G2 “soft off” or the G3 “mechanical
off” state. These transitions represent a controlled transition that allows OSPM to bring the system down in an orderly
fashion (unloading applications, closing files, and so on). The policy for these types of transitions can be associated
with the ACPI power button, which when pressed generates an event to the power button driver. When OSPM is finished
preparing the operating environment for a power loss, it will either generate a pop-up message to indicate to the user to
remove power, in order to enter the G3 “Mechanical Off” state, or it will initiate a G2 “soft-off” transition by writing
the value of the S5 “soft off” system state to the SLP_TYPx register and setting the SLP_EN bit.
The G1 sleeping state is represented by four possible sleeping states that the hardware can support. Each sleeping state
has different power and wake latency characteristics. The sleeping state differs from the working state in that the user’s
operating environment is frozen in a low-power state until awakened by an enabled wake event. No work is performed
in this state, that is, the processors are not executing instructions. Each system sleeping state has requirements about
who is responsible for system context and wake sequences (for more information, see Waking and Sleeping).
The G2 “soft off” state is an OS initiated system shutdown. This state is initiated similar to the sleeping state transition
(SLP_TYPx is set to the S5 value and setting the SLP_EN bit initiates the sequence). Exiting the G2 soft-off state
requires rebooting the system. In this case, an ACPI-only system will re-enter the G0 state directly (hardware returns
the SCI_EN bit set), while an ACPI/Legacy system transitions to the Legacy state (SCI_EN bit is clear).
4.6. The ACPI Hardware Model
57
