Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
(NIC), hard disk drive (HDD), solid state drive (SSD), Read Only Memory (ROM), flash ROM, or any of the
large number of other possible devices. If at all possible, use a more specific term.
Device Context
The variable data held by the device; it is usually volatile. The device might forget this information when entering
or leaving certain states (for more information, see Device Power State Definitions), in which case the OS software
is responsible for saving and restoring the information. Device Context refers to small amounts of information
held in device peripherals. See System Context.
Device Firmware
Firmware that is only used by a specific device and cannot be used with any other device. This firmware is
typically provided by the device manufacturer.
Differentiated System Description Table (DSDT)
An OEM must supply a DSDT to an ACPI-compatible OS. The DSDT contains the Differentiated Definition
Block, which supplies the implementation and configuration information about the base system. The OS always
inserts the DSDT information into the ACPI Namespace at system boot time and never removes it.
Device Physical Address (DPA)
A Device relative memory address.
Embedded Controller
The general class of micro-controllers used to support OEM-specific supports embedded controllers in any plat-
form design, as long as the micro-controller conforms to one of the models described in this section. The embed-
ded controller performs complex low-level functions through a simple interface to the host microprocessor(s).
ACPI defines a standard hardware and software communications interface between an OS bus enumerator and
an embedded controller. This allows any OS to provide a standard bus enumerator that can directly communicate
with an embedded controller in the system, thus allowing other drivers within the system to communicate with
and use the resources of system embedded controllers. This in turn enables the OEM to provide platform features
that the OS and applications can use.
Embedded Controller Interface
A standard hardware and software communications interface between an OS driver and an embedded controller.
This allows any OS to provide a standard driver that can directly communicate with an embedded controller in
the system, thus allowing other drivers within the system to communicate with and use the resources of system
embedded controllers (for example, Smart Battery and AML code). This in turn enables the OEM to provide
platform features that the OS and applications can use.
Expansion ROM Firmware
Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) term for firmware executed on a host processor which is used by an
add-in device during the boot process. This includes Option ROM Firmware and UEFI drivers. Expansion ROM
Firmware may be embedded as part of the Host Processor Boot Firmware, or may be separate (e.g., from an
add-in card). See also: Option ROM Firmware.
Firmware
Generic term to describe any BIOS or firmware on a platform; it refers to the general class of things, not a specific
type. Use a more specific term, if possible.
Firmware ACPI Control Structure (FACS)
A structure in read/write memory that the platform runtime firmware uses for handshaking between the firmware
and the OS. The FACS is passed to an ACPI-compatible OS via the Fixed ACPI Description Table (FADT). The
FACS contains the system’s hardware signature at last boot, the firmware waking vector, and the Global Lock.
Firmware Storage Device
A memory device used to store firmware. This could include Read Only Memory (ROM), flash memory, eMMC,
UFS drives, etc.
Fixed ACPI Description Table (FADT)
A table that contains the ACPI Hardware Register Block implementation and configuration details that the OS
2.1. General ACPI Terminology
18
