Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
• Event notification for battery insertion and removal
• Event notification for AC power connected or disconnected
• Status of which Smart Battery is communicating with the SMB-HC
• Status of which Smart Battery(s) are powering the system
• Status of which Smart Battery(s) are connected to the charger
• Status of which Smart Batteries are present in the system
• Event notification when the Smart Battery System Manager switches from one power source to another
• Hardware-switching to an alternate Smart Battery when the Smart Battery supplying power runs low
• Hardware switching between battery-powered and AC-powered powered operation
The Smart Battery System Manager function can reside in a standalone SMBus slave device (Smart Battery System
Manager that responds to the 0xA slave address), may be present within a smart charger device (Smart Battery Charger
that responds to the 0x9 slave address), or may be combined within the embedded controller (that responds to the 0xA
slave address). If both a Smart Battery Charger and a standalone Smart Battery System Manager are present in the
same Smart Battery subsystem, then the driver assumes that the standalone Smart Battery System Manager is wired to
the batteries.
The Smart Battery charger is an SMBus device that provides a standard programming model to control the charging
of Smart Batteries present in a Smart Battery subsystem. For single battery systems, the Smart Battery Charger is also
responsible for notifying the system of the battery and AC status.
The Smart Battery provides intelligent chemistry-independent power to the system. The Smart Battery is capable
of informing the Smart Battery charger of its charging requirements (which provides chemistry independence) and
providing battery status and alarm features needed for platform battery management.
10.1.1 ACPI Smart Battery Status Change Notification Requirements
The Smart Battery System Manager, the Smart Battery Selector, and the Smart Battery Charger each have an optional
mechanism for notifying the system that the battery configuration or AC status has changed. ACPI requires that this
interrupt mechanism be through the SMBus Alarm Notify mechanism.
For systems using an embedded controller as the SMBus host, a battery system device issues a status change notification
by either mastering the SMBus to send the notification directly to the SMBus host, or by emulating it in the embedded
controller. In either case, the process is the same. After the notification is received or emulated, the embedded controller
asserts an SCI. The source of the SCI is identified by a GPE that indicates the SCI was caused by the embedded
controller. The embedded controller’s status register alarm bit is set, indicating that the SMBus host received an alarm
message. The Alarm Address Register contains the address of the SMBus device that originated the alarm and the
Alarm Data Registers contain the contents of that device’s status register.
10.1.1.1 Smart Battery Charger
This requires a Smart Battery Charger, on a battery or AC status change, to generate an SMBus Alarm Notify. The
contents of the Smart Battery Charger’s ChargerStatus() command register (0x13) is placed in the embedded controller’s
Alarm Data Registers, the Smart Battery Charger’s slave address (See Note Below) (0x09) is placed in the embedded
controller’s Alarm Address Register and the EC’s Status Register’s Alarm bit is set. The embedded controller then
asserts an SCI.
10.1. Smart Battery Subsystems
684
