Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 4.19 – continued from previous page
Field
Name
Bit
Length
Bit
Offset
Description
SLP_TYPx
3
2
Defines the type of sleeping state the system enters when the SLP_EN bit is
set to one. This 3-bit field defines the type of hardware sleep state the sys-
tem enters when the SLP_EN bit is set. The _Sx object contains 3-bit binary
values associated with the respective sleeping state (as described by the ob-
ject). OSPM takes the HW-reduced Sleep Type value from the _SX object
and programs it into the SLP_TYPx field.
SLP_EN
1
5
This is a write-only bit and reads to it always return a zero. Setting this
bit causes the system to sequence into the sleeping state associated with the
SLP_TYPx fields programmed with the values from the _Sx object.
Reserved
2
6
Reserved. This field always returns zero.
Table 4.20: Sleep Status Register
Field Name
Bit Length
Bit Offset
Description
Ignore
4
0
Software ignores this bit field.
Reserved
2
4
Reserved. These bits always return a value of zero.
Ignore
1
6
Software ignores this bit field.
WAK_STS
1
7
This bit is set when the system is in the sleeping state
and an enabled wake event occurs. Upon setting this bit
system will transition to the working state. This bit is set
by hardware and can only be cleared by software writing
a “1” to this bit position.
4.8.4 Generic Hardware Registers
ACPI provides a mechanism that allows a unique piece of “value added” hardware to be described to OSPM in the
ACPI Namespace. There are a number of rules to be followed when designing ACPI-compatible hardware.
Programming bits can reside in any of the defined generic hardware address spaces (system I/O, system memory, PCI
configuration, embedded controller, or SMBus), but the top-level event bits are contained in the general-purpose event
registers. The general-purpose event registers are pointed to by the GPE0_BLK and GPE1_BLK register blocks, and the
generic hardware registers can be in any of the defined ACPI address spaces. A device’s generic hardware programming
model is described through an associated object in the ACPI Namespace, which specifies the bit’s function, location,
address space, and address location.
The programming model for devices is normally broken into status and control functions. Status bits are used to
generate an event that allows OSPM to call a control method associated with the pending status bit. The called control
method can then control the hardware by manipulating the hardware control bits or by investigating child status bits and
calling their respective control methods. ACPI requires that the top level “parent” event status and enable bits reside in
either the GPE0_STS or GPE1_STS registers, and “child” event status bits can reside in generic address space.
The example below illustrates some of these concepts. The top diagram shows how the logic is partitioned into two
chips: a chipset and an embedded controller.
• The chipset contains the interrupt logic, performs the power button (which is part of the fixed register space, and
is not discussed here), the lid switch (used in portables to indicate when the clam shell lid is open or closed), and
4.8. ACPI Register Model
87
