Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
processors in a system support the same power states. If processors have non-symmetric power state support, then the
platform runtime firmware will choose and use the lowest common power states supported by all the processors in the
system through the FADT table. For example, if the CPU0 processor supports all power states up to and including the
C3 state, but the CPU1 processor only supports the C1 power state, then OSPM will only place idle processors into
the C1 power state (CPU0 will never be put into the C2 or C3 power states). Notice that the C1 power state must be
supported. The C2 and C3 power states are optional (see the PROC_C1 flag in the FADT table description in System
Description Table Header).
The following sections describe processor power states in detail.
8.1.1 Processor Power State C0
While the processor is in the C0 power state, it executes instructions. While in the C0 power state, OSPM can generate
a policy to run the processor at less than maximum performance. The clock throttling mechanism provides OSPM with
the functionality to perform this task in addition to thermal control. The mechanism allows OSPM to program a value
into a register that reduces the processor’s performance to a percentage of maximum performance.
Fig. 8.2: Throttling Example
The FADT contains the duty offset and duty width values. The duty offset value determines the offset within the P_CNT
register of the duty value. The duty width value determines the number of bits used by the duty value (which determines
the granularity of the throttling logic). The performance of the processor by the clock logic can be expressed with the
following equation:
Fig. 8.3: Equation 1 Duty Cycle Equation
Nominal performance is defined as “close as possible, but not below the indicated performance level.” OSPM will use
the duty offset and duty width to determine how to access the duty setting field. OSPM will then program the duty setting
based on the thermal condition and desired power of the processor object. OSPM calculates the nominal performance of
the processor using the equation expressed in Equation 1. Notice that a dutysetting of zero is reserved.For example, the
clock logic could use the stop grant cycle to emulate a divided processor clock frequency on an IA processor (through
the use of the STPCLK# signal). This signal internally stops the processor’s clock when asserted LOW. To implement
logic that provides eight levels of clock control, the STPCLK# pin could be asserted as follows (to emulate the different
frequency settings):
8.1. Processor Power States
518
