Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
as a result of an asynchronous event. OSPM ignores _TDL Notify events on platforms that support P-states unless the
platform has limited OSPM’s use of P-states to the lowest power P-state. OSPM may choose to disregard any platform
conveyed T-state depth limits when the platform enables OSPM usage of other than the lowest power P-state.
8.4.5 Processor Performance Control
Processor performance control is implemented through three optional objects whose presence indicates to OSPM that
the platform and CPU are capable of supporting multiple performance states. The platform must supply all three objects
if processor performance control is implemented. The platform must expose processor performance control objects for
either all or none of its processors. The processor performance control objects define the supported processor perfor-
mance states, allow the processor to be placed in a specific performance state, and report the number of performance
states currently available on the system.
In a multiprocessing environment, all CPUs must support the same number of performance states and each processor
performance state must have identical performance and power-consumption parameters. Performance objects must be
present under each processor object in the system for OSPM to utilize this feature.
Processor performance control objects include the ‘_PCT’ package, ‘_PSS’ package, and the ‘_PPC’ method as detailed
below.
8.4.5.1 _PCT (Performance Control)
This optional object declares an interface that allows OSPM to transition the processor into a performance state. OSPM
performs processor performance transitions by writing the performance state-specific control value to a Performance
Control Register (PERF_CTRL).
OSPM may select a processor performance state as indicated by the performance state value returned by the _PPC
method, or any lower power (higher numbered) state. The control value to write is contained in the corresponding
_PSS entry’s “Control” field.
Success or failure of the processor performance transition is determined by reading a Performance Status Register
(PERF_STATUS) to determine the processor’s current performance state. If the transition was successful, the value
read from PERF_STATUS will match the “Status” field in the _PSS entry that corresponds to the desired processor
performance state.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A Package as described below
Return Value Information
Package
{
ControlRegister
// Buffer (Resource Descriptor)
StatusRegister
// Buffer (Resource Descriptor)
}
8.4. Declaring Processors
561
