Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
A.3 Default Device Class
The requirements expressed in this section apply to all devices, even if there is a separate, class-specific power man-
agement definition that identifies additional requirements.
Table A-1: Default Power State Definitions
State
Definition
D0
Device is on and running. It is receiving full power from the system, and is delivering full func-
tionality to the user.
D1
This state is not defined and not used by the default device class.
D2
This state is not defined and not used by the default device class.
D3
Device is off and not running. Device context is assumed lost, and there is no need for any of it
to be preserved in hardware. This state should consume the minimum power possible. Its only
requirement is to recognize a bus-specific command to re-enter D0. Power can be removed from
the device while in D3. If power is removed, the device will receive a bus-specific hardware reset
upon reapplication of power, and should initialize itself as in a normal power on.
A.3.1 Default Power Management Policy
Table A-2: Default Power Management Policy
Present
State
Next
State
Cause
D0
D3
Device determined by the OS to not be needed by any applications or the user. System enters
a sleeping state.
D3
D0
Device determined by the OS to be needed by some application or the user.
A.3.2 Default Wake Events
There are no default wake events, because knowledge of the device is implicit in servicing such events. Devices can
expose wake capabilities to OSPM, and device-specific software can enable these, but there is no generic application-
level or OS-wide support for undefined wake events.
A.3.3 Default Minimum Power Capabilities
All devices must support the D0 and D3 states. Functionality available in D0 must be available after returning to D0
from D3 without requiring a system reboot or any user intervention. This requirement applies whether or not power is
removed from the device during D3.
A.3. Default Device Class
1093
