Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
16.3.3 OS Loading
At this point, the platform boot firmware has passed control to OSPM, either by using OSPM boot loader (a result of
waking from an S4/S5 or boot condition) or OSPM waking vector (a result of waking from an S2 or S3 state). For the
Boot OS Loader path, OSPM will get the system address map via one of the mechanisms describe in System Address
Map Interfaces If OSPM is booting from an S4 state, it will then check the NVS image file’s hardware signature with
the hardware signature within the FACS table (built by platform boot firmware) to determine whether it has changed
since entering the sleeping state (indicating that the platforms fundamental hardware configuration has changed during
the current sleeping state). If the signature has changed, OSPM will not restore the system context and can boot from
scratch (from the S4 state). Next, for an S4 wake, OSPM will check the NVS file to see whether it is valid. If valid, then
OSPM will load the NVS image into system memory. Next, if not a HW-reduced ACPI platform, OSPM will check
the SCI_EN bit and if it is not set, will write the ACPI_ENABLE value to the SMI_CMD register to switch into the
system into ACPI mode and will then reload the memory image from the NVS file.
If an NVS image file did not exist, then OSPM loader will load OSPM from scratch. At this point, OSPM will generate
a _WAK call that indicates to the platform runtime firmware that its ACPI NVS memory image has been successfully
and completely updated.
16.3.4 Exiting ACPI Mode
For machines that do not boot in ACPI mode, ACPI provides a mechanism that enables the OS to disable ACPI. The
following occurs:
1. OSPM unloads all ACPI drivers (including the ACPI driver).
2. OSPM disables all ACPI events.
3. OSPM finishes using all ACPI registers.
4. OSPM issues an I/O access to the port at the address contained in the SMI_CMD field (in the FADT) with the
value contained in the ACPI_DISABLE field (in the FADT).
5. Platform runtime firmware then remaps all SCI events to legacy events and resets the SCI_EN bit.
6. Upon seeing the SCI_EN bit cleared, the ACPI OS enters the legacy OS mode.
When and if the legacy OS returns control to the ACPI OS, if the legacy OS has not maintained the ACPI tables (in
reserved memory and ACPI NVS memory), the ACPI OS will reboot the system to allow the platform runtime firmware
to re-initialize the tables.
16.3. Initialization
838
