Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
(0xFD) of the processors belonging to the domain into a particular target state. OSPM may choose at its discretion to
perform coordination even though the underlying hardware supports hardware coordination. In this case, OSPM must
transition all logical processors in the dependency domain to the particular target state.
Table 8.1: C-state/T-state/P-state Coordination Types
Value
Description
0xFC
SW_ALL: The OSPM coordinates the state for all processors in the domain by making the same
state request on the control interface of each processor in the domain. ALL refers to the require-
ment that all processors in the domain must agree on the requested state for the domain to enter
that state.
0xFD
SW_ANY: The OSPM coordinates the state for all processors in the domain by making a state
request on the control interface of only one processor in the domain. ANY refers to the hardware
requirement for all processors in the domain to transition to the last requested state on any processor
in the domain.
0xFE
HW_ALL: As the OSPM requests a state transition on the control interface of any processor in the
domain, hardware coordinates the state for all processors in the domain and transitions all proces-
sors in the domain to the coordinated state. ALL refers to the requirement for hardware maintaining
coordination as OPSM makes independent state requests on any processor in the domain. Unlike
SW_ALL, OSPM can make different state requests for processors in the domain, while hardware
determines the resulting state for all processors in the domain. Note: The hardware coordination
policy is implementation-defined.
There are no dependencies implied between a processor’s C-states, P-states or T-states. Hence, for example it is possible
to use the same dependency domain number for specifying dependencies between P-states among one set of processors
and C-states among another set of processors without any dependencies being implied between the P-State transitions
on a processor in the first set and C-state transitions on a processor in the second set.
8.4 Declaring Processors
Each processor in the system must be declared in the ACPI namespace in the \_SB scope. A Device definition for a
processor is declared using the ACPI0007 hardware identifier (HID). Processor configuration information is provided
exclusively by objects in the processor device’s object list.
When the platform uses the APIC interrupt model, UID object values under a processor device are used to associate
processor devices with entries in the MADT.
Processor-specific objects may be declared within the processor device’s scope. These objects serve multiple purposes
including processor performance state control. Other ACPI-defined device-related objects are also allowed under the
processor device’s scope (for example, the unique identifier object _UID mentioned above).
With device-like characteristics attributed to processors, it is implied that a processor device driver will be loaded by
OSPM to, at a minimum, process device notifications. OSPM will enumerate processors in the system using the ACPI
Namespace, processor-specific native identification instructions, and the _HID method.
For more information on the declaration of the processor device object, see Device (Declare Device Package).
Processor-specific child objects are described in the following sections.
ACPI 6.0 introduces the notion of processor containers. Processor containers are declared using the Processor Con-
tainer Device. A processor container can be used to describe a collection of associated processors that share common
resources, such as shared caches, and which have power states that affect the processors in the collection. For more
information see Processor Container Device.
8.4. Declaring Processors
523
