Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
18.5.1.3 Error Record Serialization Information
The APEI error record includes an 8 byte field called OSPM Reserved. The following table defines the layout of this
field. The error record serialization information is a small buffer the platform can use for serialization bookkeeping.
The platform is free to use the 48 bits starting at bit offset 16 for its own purposes. It may use these bits to indicate the
busy/free status of an error record, to record an internal identifier, etc.
Table 18.23: Error Record Serialization Info
Field
Bit Length
Bit Offset
Description
Signature
16
0
16-bit signature (‘ER’) identifying the start of the
error record serialization data.
Platform
Serialization
Data
48
16
Platform private error record serialization infor-
mation.
18.5.2 Operations
The error record serialization interface comprises three operations: Write, Read, and Clear. OSPM uses the Write
operation to write a single error record to the persistent store. The Read operation is used to retrieve a single error
record previously recorded to the persistent store using the write operation. The Clear operation allows OSPM to
notify the platform that a given error record has been fully processed and is no longer needed, allowing the platform to
recover the storage associated with a cleared error record.
Where the Error Log Address Range is NVRAM, significant optimizations are possible since transfer from the Error
Log Address Range to a separate storage device is unnecessary. The platform may still, however, copy the record from
NVRAM to another device, should it choose to. This allows, for example, the platform to copy error records to private
log files. In order to give the platform the opportunity to do this, OSPM must use the Write operation to persist error
records even when the Error Log Address Range is NVRAM. The Read and Clear operations, however, are unnecessary
in this case as OSPM is capable of reading and clearing error records without assistance from the platform.
18.5.2.1 Writing
To write a single HW error record, OSPM executes the following steps:
1. Initializes the error record’s serialization info. OSPM must fill in the Signature.
2. Writes the error record to be persisted into the Error Log Address Range.
3. Executes the BEGIN_WRITE_OPERATION action to notify the platform that a record write operation is begin-
ning.
4. Executes the SET_RECORD_OFFSET action to inform the platform where in the
5. Error Log Address Range the error record resides.
6. Executes the EXECUTE_OPERATION action to instruct the platform to begin the write operation.
7. Busy waits by continually executing CHECK_BUSY_STATUS action until FALSE is returned.
8. Executes a GET_COMMAND_STATUS action to determine the status of the write operation. If an error is
indicated, the OS
9. PM may retry the operation.
10. Executes an END_OPERATION action to notify the platform that the record write operation is complete.
18.5. Error Serialization
872
