Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
When the platform is waking from an S1, S2 or S3 state, and from S4 and S5 on HW-reduced ACPI platforms, OSPM
assumes the hardware is already in the ACPI mode and will not issue an ACPI_ENABLE command to the SMI_CMD
port
16.3.2 Platform Boot Firmware Initialization of Memory
During a power-on reset, an exit from an S4 sleeping state, or an exit from an S5 soft-off state, the platform boot
firmware needs to initialize memory. This section explains how the platform boot firmware should configure memory
for use by a number of features including:
• ACPI tables.
• Platform firmware memory that wants to be saved across S4 sleeping sessions and should be cached.
• Platform firmware memory that does not require saving and should be cached.
For example, the configuration of the platform’s cache controller requires an area of memory to store the configuration
data. During the wake sequence, the platform boot firmware will re-enable the memory controller and can then use
its configuration data to reconfigure the cache controllers. To support these three items, IA-PC-based systems contain
System Address Map Interfaces that return the following memory range types:
ACPI Reclaim Memory.
Memory identified by the platform boot firmware that contains the ACPI tables. This memory can be any place
above 8 MB and contains the ACPI tables. When OSPM is finished using the ACPI tables, it is free to reclaim
this memory for system software use (application space).
ACPI Non-Volatile-Sleeping Memory (NVS).
Memory identified by the BIOS as being reserved by the platform boot firmware for its use. OSPM is required
to tag this memory as cacheable, and to save and restore its image before entering an S4 state. Except as directed
by control methods, OSPM is not allowed to use this physical memory. OSPM will call the _PTS control method
some time before entering a sleeping state, to allow the platform’s AML code to update this memory image
before entering the sleeping state. After the system awakes from an S4 state, OSPM will restore this memory
area and call the _WAK control method to enable the platform boot firmware to reclaim its memory image.
ò Note
The memory information returned from the system address map reporting interfaces should be the same before and
after an S4 sleep.
When the system is first booting, OSPM will invoke E820 interfaces on IA-PC-based legacy systems or the GetMemo-
ryMap() interface on UEFI-enabled systems to obtain a system memory map, System Address Map Interfaces for more
information). As an example, the following memory map represents a typical IA-PC-based legacy platform’s physical
memory map.
The names and attributes of the different memory regions are listed below:
• 0-640 KB. Compatibility Memory. Application executable memory for an 8086 system.
• 640 KB-1 MB. Compatibility Holes. Holes within memory space that allow accesses to be directed to the PC-
compatible frame buffer (A0000h-BFFFFh), to adapter ROM space (C0000h-DFFFFh), and to system platform
firmware space (E0000h-FFFFFh).
• 1 MB-8 MB. Contiguous RAM. An area of contiguous physical memory addresses. Operating systems may
require this memory to be contiguous in order for its loader to load the OS properly on boot up. (No memory-
mapped I/O devices should be mapped into this area.)
• 8 MB-Top of Memory1. This area contains memory to the “top of memory1” boundary. In this area, memory-
mapped I/O blocks are possible.
16.3. Initialization
835
