Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
3.9 Battery Management
Battery management policy moves from the APM BIOS to the ACPI-compatible OS. Batteries must comply with the
requirements of their associated interfaces, as described either herein or in other applicable standards. The OS may
choose to alter the behavior of the battery, for example, by adjusting the Low Battery or Battery Warning trip point.
When there are multiple batteries present, the battery subsystem is not required to perform any synthesis of a “composite
battery” from the data of the separate batteries. In cases where the battery subsystem does not synthesize a “composite
battery” from the separate battery’s data, the OS must provide that synthesis.
An ACPI-compatible battery device needs either a Smart Battery subsystem interface or a Control Method Battery
interface.
• Smart Battery is controlled by the OS directly through the embedded controller (EC). See Section 10.1 and
Section 12.9 for more information.
• Control Method Battery is completely accessed by AML code control methods, allowing the OEM to choose
any type of battery and any kind of communication interface supported by ACPI. See Section 10.2 for more
information.
This section describes concepts common to all battery types.
3.9.1 Battery Communications
Both the Smart Battery and Control Method Battery interfaces provide a mechanism for the OS to query information
from the platform’s battery system. This information may include full charged capacity, present battery capacity, rate
of discharge, and other measures of the battery’s condition. All battery system types must provide notification to the
OS when there is a change such as inserting or removing a battery, or when a battery starts or stops discharging. Smart
Batteries and some Control Method Batteries are also able to give notifications based on changes in capacity. Smart
batteries provide extra information such as estimated run-time, information about how much power the battery is able
to provide, and what the run-time would be at a predetermined rate of consumption.
3.9.2 Battery Capacity
Each battery must report its designed capacity, latest full-charged capacity, and present remaining capacity. Remaining
capacity decreases during usage, and it also changes depending on the environment. Therefore, the OS must use latest
full-charged capacity to calculate the battery percentage. In addition the battery system must report warning and low
battery levels at which the user must be notified and the system transitioned to a sleeping state. See Fig. 3.3 for the
relation of these five values.
A system may use either rate and capacity [mA/mAh] or power and energy [mW/mWh] for the unit of battery infor-
mation calculation and reporting. Mixing [mA] and [mW] is not allowed on a system.
3.9.3 Battery Gas Gauge
At the most basic level, the OS calculates Remaining Battery Percentage [%] using the following formula:
Control Method Battery also reports the Present Drain Rate [mA or mW] for calculating the remaining battery life. At
the most basic level, Remaining Battery life is calculated by following formula:
Smart Batteries also report the present rate of drain, but since they can directly report the estimated run-time, this
function should be used instead as it can more accurately account for variations specific to the battery.
3.9. Battery Management
42
