Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
A.6.3 Display Device Wake Events
Display devices incorporating a system power switch should generate a wake event when the switch is pressed while
the system is sleeping.
A.6.4 Display Device Minimum Power Capabilities
A CRT monitor conforming to this specification must support the D0, D2, and D3 states. Other full screen displays
only need to support D0 and D3. Support for the D1 state is optional in all cases. Transitional latencies for the D1 or
D2 state must meet the requirements above.
A video controller conforming to this specification must support the D0 and D3 states. Support for the D1 and D2
states is optional. Transitional latencies for the D1 must be less than 100 milliseconds while D2 and D3 must transition
to D0 in less than 200 milliseconds.
A.6.5 Display Device Performance States
Performance states for display devices and adapters have one clear difference from defined power management states.
There is no display in any power management state higher than D0. However, performance states are all applied within
D0, which means they save power while continuing to display. Not all display class devices will support performance
states, but in all cases, they must allow continued display where they exist.
A.6.5.1 Common Requirements for Display Class Performance States
The definition of each state (up the line toward the OSPM) must include maximum latency information on transitions
into the state and transitions out of the state. (For states other than DPS1, it may be necessary to indicate whether the
latency is the time from DPS0 to DPSx or only from DPSx-1 to DPSx.)
Each state has to have a relative weight indicator or a relative power savings indicator (i.e., it can make a difference in
OSPM policies whether DPS1 saves 2% power and DPS2 save 75% power even if latency is longer.)
While ASL NameSpace structures may provide some of this information, it is recommended that display class perfor-
mance states be entered and exited by driver and not by control method wherever possible.
A.6.5.2 Performance states for Full Screen Displays
A.6.5.2.1 CRT Performance States
Some CRTs (in theory) have the capability for “reduced on” – a mode which displays but uses less power than full
performance. Even without this capability, a CRT may be able to use reduced refresh or other methods to reduce the
total power of displaying.
A.6. Display Device Class
1101
