Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
These two cooling modes are inversely related to each other. Active cooling requires increased power to reduce the
heat within the system while Passive cooling requires reduced power to decrease the temperature. The effect of this
relationship is that Active cooling allows maximum system performance, but it may create undesirable fan noise, while
Passive cooling reduces system performance, but is inherently quiet.
3.10.2 Performance vs. Energy Conservation
A robust OSPM implementation provides the means for the end user to convey to OSPM a preference (or a level of
preference) for either performance or energy conservation. Allowing the end user to choose this preference is most
critical to mobile system users where maximizing system run-time on a battery charge often has higher priority over
realizing maximum system performance.
A user’s preference for performance corresponds to the Active cooling mode while a user’s preference for energy
conservation corresponds to the Passive cooling mode. ACPI defines an interface to convey the cooling mode to the
platform. Active cooling can be performed with minimal OSPM thermal policy intervention. For example, the platform
indicates through thermal zone parameters that crossing a thermal trip point requires a fan to be turned on. Passive
cooling requires OSPM thermal policy to manipulate device interfaces that reduce performance to reduce thermal zone
temperature.
3.10.3 Acoustics (Noise)
Active cooling mode generally implies that fans will be used to cool the system and fans vary in their audible output.
Fan noise can be quite undesirable given the loudness of the fan and the ambient noise environment. In this case, the end
user’s physical requirement for fan silence may override the preference for either performance or energy conservation.
A user’s desire for fan silence corresponds to the Passive cooling mode. Accordingly, a user’s desire for fan silence
also means a preference for energy conservation.
For more information on thermal management and examples of platform settings for active and passive cooling, see
Section 3.10
3.10.4 Multiple Thermal Zones
The basic thermal management model defines one thermal zone, but in order to provide extended thermal control in a
complex system, ACPI specifies a multiple thermal zone implementation. Under a multiple thermal zone model, OSPM
will independently manage several thermal-coupled devices and a designated thermal zone for each thermal-coupled
device, using Active and/or Passive cooling methods available to each thermal zone. Each thermal zone can have more
than one Passive and Active cooling device. Furthermore, each zone might have unique or shared cooling resources. In
a multiple thermal zone configuration, if one zone reaches a critical state then OSPM must shut down the entire system.
3.11 Flexible Platform Architecture Support
ACPI defines mechanisms and models to accommodate platform architectures that deviate from the traditional PC.
ACPI provides support for platform technologies that enable lower-power, lower cost, more design flexibility and more
device diversity. This support is described in the following sections, and detailed in later chapters.
3.11. Flexible Platform Architecture Support
48
