Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
21.2.5 Special Fields
Reserved Fields:
All fields that are declared as Reserved by the table definition within the ACPI (or other) specification should be
set to zero.
Table Revision:
This field in the common ACPI table header is often very important and defines the structure of the remaining
table. The developer should take care to ensure that this value is correct and current. This field is not set
automatically by the compiler. It is instead used to indicate which version of the table is being compiled.
Table Signature:
There are several table signatures within ACPI that are either different from the table name, or have unusual
length:
FADT - signature is “FACP”.
MADT - signature is “APIC”.
RSDP - signature is “RSD PTR “ (with trailing space)
21.2.6 TDL Generic Data Types
The following data types are used to construct ACPI tables that are not predefined (known) by the TDL compiler:
UINT8 Generates an 8-bit unsigned integer UINT16 Generates a 16-bit unsigned integer UINT24 Gen-
erates a 24-bit unsigned integer UINT32 Generates a 32-bit unsigned integer UINT40 Generates a 40-bit
unsigned integer UINT48 Generates a 48-bit unsigned integer UINT56 Generates a 56-bit unsigned integer
UINT64 Generates a 64-bit unsigned integer String Generates a null-terminated ASCII string (ASCIIZ)
Unicode Generates a null terminated Unicode (UTF-16) string Buffer Generates a buffer of 8-bit unsigned
integers GUID Generates an encoded GUID in a 16-byte buffer Label Generates a Label at the current
location (offset) within the table. This label can be referenced within integer expressions by prepending
the label with a ‘$’ sign.
21.2.7 Defining a Known ACPI Table in TDL
It is expected that most ACPI tables that will be created via the TDL compiler are ACPI tables that are known to the
compiler. This means that the compiler contains the required structure and definition of the table, as per the ACPI
specification or other specification for that table.
For these known ACPI tables, specifying the data for the table involves simply defining the value for each field in the
table. The compiler automatically types the data, performs range and any value checks, and generates the appropriate
output.
The starting point for any of the known ACPI tables is the document that specifies the format of the table (usually the
ACPI specification), or a table template file generated by an ASL compiler, or even the output of an AML disassembler.
Writing the TDL code involves implementing one line of code for each data item specified in the table definition itself.
For example, the table header for an ACPI table can be defined as simply a sequence of strings and integers. The TDL
compiler will format these data items into a 36-byte ACPI header:
: "ECDT"
: 00000000
: 01
: 00
: "OEM "
(continues on next page)
21.2. ACPI Table Definition Language Specification
1085
