Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
The static SLIT table provides the boot time description of the relative distances among all System Localities. For
hot-added devices and dynamic reconfiguration of the system localities, the _SLI object must be used for runtime
update.
The _SLI method is an optional object that provides the runtime update of the relative distances from the System
Locality i to all other System Localities in the system. Since _SLI method is providing additional relative distance
information among System Localities, if implemented, it is provided alongside with the _PXM method.
17.3.1 Online Hot Plug
In the case of online device addition, the Bus Check notification (0x0) is performed on a device object to indicate to
OSPM that it needs to perform the Plug and Play re-enumeration operation on the device tree starting from the point
where it has been notified. OSPM needs to evaluate all _PXM objects associated with the added devices, and _SLI
objects if the SLIT is present.
In the case of online device removal, OSPM needs to perform the Plug and Play ejection operation when it receives
the Eject Request notification (0x03). OSPM needs to remove the relative distance information from its internal data
structure for the removed devices.
17.3.2 Impact to Existing Localities
Dynamic reconfiguration of the system may cause the relative distance information (if the optional SLIT is present) to
become stale. If this occurs, the “System Locality Information Update” notification (Notify event of type 0xB) may be
generated by the platform to a device at a point on the device tree that represents a System Locality. This indicates to
OSPM that it needs to invoke the _SLI objects associated with the System Localities on the device tree starting from
the point where it has been notified.
17.4 Heterogeneous Memory Attributes Information
Optionally, OSPM may further optimize a NUMA architecture system using the Heterogeneous Memory Attributes.
This may be useful if the memory latency and bandwidth attributes between system localities is significantly different.
In this case, the information is contained in the optional Heterogeneous Memory Attributes (HMAT) and is returned
from the evaluation of the _HMA object.
The HMAT structure describes the latency and bandwidth information between memory access Initiator and memory
Target System Localities. System Locality proximity domain identifiers, as defined by Proximity Domain entries in the
System Resource Affinity Table (SRAT), or as returned by _PXM object, are used in the HMAT structure.
Implementation Note: The size of the HMAT table is determined by number of memory initiator System Localities
and the memory target System Localities. The static HMAT table provides the boot time description of the memory
latency and bandwidth among all memory access Initiator and memory Target System Localities. For hot-added devices
and dynamic reconfiguration of the system localities, the _HMA object must be used for runtime update.
The _HMA method is an optional object that provides the runtime update of the latency and bandwidth from the
memory access Initiator System Locality “i” to all other memory Target System Localities “j” in the system.
Since _HMA method is providing additional memory latency and bandwidth information among System Localities, if
implemented, it is provided alongside with the _PXM method.
17.4. Heterogeneous Memory Attributes Information
842
