Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 11.1: ACPI Thermal Zone
11.1.1 Active, Passive, and Critical Policies
There are three cooling policies that OSPM uses to control the thermal state of the hardware. The policies are active,
passive and critical.
• Active Cooling. OSPM takes a direct action such as turning on one or more fans. Applying active cooling controls
typically consume power and produce some amount of noise, but are able to cool a thermal zone without limiting
system performance. Active cooling temperature trip points declare the temperature thresholds OSPM uses to
decide when to start or stop different active cooling devices.
• Passive Cooling. OSPM reduces the power consumption of devices to reduce the temperature of a thermal zone,
such as slowing (throttling) the processor clock. Applying passive cooling controls typically produces no user-
noticeable noise. Passive cooling temperature trip points specify the temperature thresholds where OSPM will
start or stop passive cooling.
• Critical Trip Points. These are threshold temperatures at which OSPM performs an orderly, but critical, shutdown
of a device or the entire system. The _HOT object declares the critical temperature at which OSPM may choose
to transition the system into the S4 sleeping state, if supported, The _CRT object declares the critical temperature
at which OSPM must perform a critical shutdown.
When a thermal zone appears in the ACPI Namespace or when a new device becomes a member of a thermal zone,
OSPM retrieves the temperature thresholds (trip points) at which it executes a cooling policy. When OSPM receives a
temperature change notification, it evaluates the thermal zone’s temperature interfaces to retrieve current temperature
values. OSPM compares the current temperature values against the temperature thresholds. If any temperature is
greater than or equal to a corresponding active trip point then OSPM will perform active cooling . If any temperature is
greater than or equal to a corresponding passive trip point then OSPM will perform passive cooling. If the _TMP object
returns a value greater than or equal to the value returned by the _HOT object then OSPM may choose to transition
the system into the S4 sleeping state, if supported. If the _TMP object returns a value greater than or equal to the
11.1. Thermal Control
721
