Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
9.15.3 User Presence Sensor Events
To communicate changes in user presence to OSPM, AML code should issue a Notify(upd_device, 0x80) whenever a
change in user presence has occurred. The OS receives this notification and calls the _UPD control method to determine
the current user presence status.
UPD notifications should be generated whenever a transition occurs between one of the user presence states (absent,
present, or unknown) - but at a level of granularity that provides an appropriate response without overly taxing the
system with unnecessary interrupts.
9.16 I/O APIC Device
This optional device describes a discrete I/O APIC device that is not bus enumerated (e.g., as a PCI device). Describing
such a device in the ACPI namespace is only necessary if hot plug of this device is supported. If hot plug of this device
is not supported, an MADT I/O APIC entry is sufficient to describe this device.
An I/O APIC device is an I/O unit that complies with either of the APIC interrupt models supported by ACPI. These
interrupt models are described in Section 5.2.12.3 and Section 5.2.12.9.
If the device is an I/O unit that complies with the APIC interrupt model, it is declared using the ACPI000A identifier.
If this device is an I/O unit that complies with the SAPIC interrupt model, it is declared using the ACPI000B identifier.
If this device complies with both the APIC and SAPIC interrupt models (I/OxAPIC), it is declared using the ACPI0009
identifier.
An I/O APIC device declared using any of the above identifiers must contain a _GSB object to report its _GSB (Global
System Interrupt Base). It must also contain a _CRS object that reports the base address of the I/O APIC device. The
_CRS object is required to contain only one resource, a memory resource pointing to the I/O APIC register base.
ò Note
Because the _CRS and _GSB methods provide sufficient information, it is not necessary to provide _MAT under
an I/O APIC device.
For an I/O APIC device that is described both in the MADT and in the namespace, the base address described in
the MADT entry must be the same as the base address in the IO APIC device _CRS at boot time. OSPM must use
the information from the MADT until such a time as the _CRS and _GSB methods in the namespace device can be
processed. At this point OSPM must ignore the MADT entry.
9.17 Time and Alarm Device
The following sections define the operation and definition of the optional control method-based Time and Alarm device,
which provides a hardware independent abstraction and a more robust alternative to the Real Time Clock (RTC) (See
PC/AT RTC/CMOS Devices.)
The time capabilities of the time and alarm device maintain the time of day information across platform power transi-
tions, and keep track of time even when the platform is turned off. It is expected that the time on the platform will be
consistent when different firmware interfaces are used to query the platform time. For example, a UEFI call to get the
time should return the same time as if the OSPM used the time and alarm device at the same point in time.
The Time and Alarm device can optionally support power management objects (e.g. _PS0, _PS3) to allow the OS to
manage the device’s power consumption.
9.16. I/O APIC Device
636
