Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
7.2.3 _ON
This power resource control method puts the power resource into the ON state. The control method must not complete
until the power resource is on, including any required sequencing delays between, or after, operations on the power
resource. OSPM is required to turn on or off only one resource at a time. The AML code can use Stall or Sleep within
the method to cause the proper sequencing delays. OSPM is not required to run the _STA method to confirm that the
resource has been successfully turned on, and may run the _ON method repeatedly, even if the resource is already on.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
None
7.2.4 _STA (Power Resource Status)
Returns the current ON or OFF status for the power resource.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the current power status of the device:
• 0 - The power resource is currently off
• 1 - The power resource is currently on
7.2.5 Passive Power Resources
In some platforms, certain power resources may be shared between devices and processors, requiring both to be in
specific idle states before they can be turned off. Direct OSPM control of such resources is not possible while the
OS is running because the processors depend on the resources being enabled whilst they are running. It is only when
processors go idle that it may be possible to turn off these shared resources. For a given resource of this type this is
only possible if, in addition to the processors being idle, any other devices that depend on the resource are in a state
that allows powering it down. In these cases, the platform can manage the power resource as part of entry/exit from a
Low Power Idle (LPI) state and OSPM can guide the decision on whether or not to turn off the resources with its LPI
state request. In those cases the power resource _ON/_OFF/_STA methods are completely redundant.
Passive power resources, which are just like traditional power resources except they do not include _ON, _OFF, or _STA,
are introduced to support this case. Omission of these methods reduces overhead by avoiding redundant evaluations
and saves the platform from having to supply (working) methods which it does not need. Since OSPM cannot manage
passive power resources directly via _ON/_OFF, passive power resources must be listed as a dependency of at least
one LPI state where the platform will manipulate them. The dependencies between LPI states and power resources are
described in the _RDI object. See _RDI (Resource Dependencies for Idle) for additional details.
7.2. Declaring a Power Resource Object
492
