Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
A variable-length Package containing a list of namespace references
Before OSPM ejects a device via the device’s _EJx methods, all dependent devices listed in the package returned by
_EDL are prepared for removal. Notice that _EJx methods under the dependent devices are not executed.
When describing a platform that includes a docking station, an _EDL object is declared under the docking station
device. For example, if a mobile system can attach to two different types of docking stations, _EDL is declared under
both docking station devices and evaluates to the packaged list of devices that must be ejected when the system is
ejected from the docking station.
An ACPI-compliant OS evaluates the _EDL method just prior to ejecting the device.
6.3.2 _EJD (Ejection Dependent Device)
This object is used to specify the name of a device on which the device, under which this object is declared, is dependent.
This object is primarily used to support docking stations. Before the device indicated by _EJD is ejected, OSPM will
prepare the dependent device (in other words, the device under which this object is declared) for removal.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A String containing the device name
_EJD is evaluated once when the ACPI table loads. The EJx methods of the device indicated by _EJD will be used to
eject all the dependent devices. A device’s dependents will be ejected when the device itself is ejected.
ò Note
OSPM will not execute a dependent device’s _EJx methods when the device indicated by _EJD is ejected.
When describing a platform that includes a docking station, usually more than one _EJD object will be needed. For
example, if a dock attaches both a PCI device and an ACPI-configured device to a mobile system, then both the PCI
device description package and the ACPI-configured device description package must include an _EJD object that
evaluates to the name of the docking station (the name specified in an _ADR or _HID object in the docking station’s
description package). Thus, when the docking connector signals an eject request, OSPM first attempts to disable and
unload the drivers for both the PCI and ACPI configured devices.
ò Note
An ACPI 1.0 OS evaluates the _EJD methods only once during the table load process. This greatly restricts a table
designer’s freedom to describe dynamic dependencies such as those created in scenarios with multiple docking
stations. This restriction is illustrated in the example below; the _EJD information supplied via and ACPI 1.0-
compatible namespace omits the IDE2 device from DOCK2’s list of ejection dependencies. Starting in ACPI 2.0,
OSPM is presented with a more in-depth view of the ejection dependencies in a system by use of the _EDL methods.
Example
An example use of _EJD and _EDL is as follows:
Scope(\_SB.PCI0) {
Device(DOCK1) {
// Pass through dock - DOCK1
Name(_ADR, ...)
(continues on next page)
6.3. Device Insertion, Removal, and Status Objects
418
