Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
9.5 Control Method Power and Sleep Button Devices
The system’s power or sleep button can either be implemented using the fixed register space as defined in Console
Buttons or implemented in AML code as a control method power button device. In either case, the power button
override function or similar unconditional system power or reset functionality is still implemented in external hardware.
To implement a control method power-button or sleep-button device, implement AML code that delivers two types of
notifications concerning the device. The first is Notify(Object, 0x80) to signal that the button was pressed while the
system was in the S0 state to indicate that the user wants the machine to transition from S0 to some sleeping state. The
other notification is Notify(Object, 0x2) to signal that the button was pressed while the system was in an S1 to S4 state
and to cause the system to wake. When the button is used to wake the system, the wake notification (Notify(Object,
0x2)) must occur after OSPM actually wakes, and a button-pressed notification (Notify(Object, 0x80)) must not occur.
The Wake Notification indicates that the system is awake because the user pressed the button and therefore a complete
system resume should occur (for example, turn on the display immediately, and so on).
9.6 Generic Container Device
A generic container device is a bridge that does not require a special OS driver because the bridge does not provide
or require any features not described within the normal ACPI device functions. The resources the bridge requires
are specified via normal ACPI resource mechanisms. Device enumeration for child devices is supported via ACPI
namespace device enumeration and OS drivers require no other features of the bus. Such a bridge device is identified
with the Plug and Play ID of PNP0A05 or PNP0A06.
A generic bus bridge device is typically used for integrated bridges that have no other means of controlling them
and that have a set of well-known devices behind them. For example, a portable computer can have a “generic bus
bridge” known as an EIO bus that bridges to some number of Super-I/O devices. The bridged resources are likely to
be positively decoded as either a function of the bridge or the integrated devices. In this example, a generic bus bridge
device would be used to declare the bridge then child devices would be declared below the bridge; representing the
integrated Super-I/O devices.
9.7 ATA Controller Devices
There are two types of ATA Controllers: IDE controllers (also known as ATA controllers) and Serial ATA (SATA)
controllers. IDE controllers are those using the traditional IDE programming interface, and may support Parallel ATA
(P-ATA) or SATA connections. SATA controllers may be designed to operate in emulation mode only, native mode
only, or they may be designed to support both native and non-native SATA modes. Regardless of the mode supported,
SATA controllers are designed to work solely with drives supporting the Serial ATA physical interface. As described
below, SATA controllers are treated similarly but not identically to traditional IDE controllers.
Platforms that contain controllers that support native and non-native SATA modes must take steps to ensure the proper
objects are placed in the namespace for the mode in which they are operating.
Table 9.4: ATA Specific Objects
Object
Description
Controller Type
_GTF
Optional object that returns the ATA task file needed to re-initialize the drive to
boot up defaults.
Both
_GTM
Optional object that returns the IDE controller timing information.
IDE-only
_STM
Optional control method that sets the IDE controller’s transfer timing settings.
IDE-only
continues on next page
9.5. Control Method Power and Sleep Button Devices
603
