Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5.5.2.2 Method Calling Convention
The calling convention for control methods can best be described as call-by-reference-constant. In this convention,
objects passed as arguments are passed by “reference”, meaning that they are not copied to new objects as they are
passed to the called control method (A calling convention that copies objects or object wrappers during a call is known
as call-by-value or call-by-copy).
This call-by-reference-constant convention allows internal objects to be shared across each method invocation, therefore
reducing the number of object copies that must be performed as well as the number of buffers that must be copied. This
calling convention is appropriate to the low-level nature of the ACPI subsystem within the kernel of the host operating
system where non-paged dynamic memory is typically at a premium. The ASL programmer must be aware of the
calling convention and the related side effects.
However, unlike a pure call-by-reference convention, the ability of the called control method to modify arguments is
extremely limited. This reduces aliasing issues such as when a called method unexpectedly modifies a object or variable
that has been passed as an argument by the caller. In effect, the arguments that are passed to control methods are passed
as constants that cannot be modified except under specific controlled circumstances.
Generally, the objects passed to a control method via the ArgX terms cannot be directly written or modified by the
called method. In other words, when an ArgX term is used as a target operand in an ASL statement, the existing ArgX
object is not modified. Instead, the new object replaces the existing object and the ArgX term effectively becomes a
LocalX term.
The only exception to the read-only argument rule is if an ArgX term contains an Object Reference created via the
RefOf ASL operator. In this case, the use of the ArgX term as a target operand will cause any existing object stored at
the ACPI name referred to by the RefOf operation to be overwritten.
In some limited cases, a new, writable object may be created that will allow a control method to change the value of
an ArgX object. These cases are limited to Buffer and Package objects where the “value” of the object is represented
indirectly. For Buffers, a writable Index or Field can be created that refers to the original buffer data and will allow the
called method to read or modify the data. For Packages, a writable Index can be created to allow the called method to
modify the contents of individual elements of the Package.
5.5.2.3 Local Variables and Locally Created Data Objects
Control methods can access up to eight local data objects. Access to the local data objects have shorthand encodings.
On initial control method execution, the local data objects are NULL. Access to local objects is via the ASL LocalTerm
language elements.
Upon control method execution completion, one object can be returned that can be used as the result of the execution
of the method. The “caller” must either use the result or save it to a different object if it wants to preserve it. See the
description of the Return ASL operator for additional details
NameSpace objects created within the scope of a method are dynamic. They exist only for the duration of the method
execution. They are created when specified by the code and are destroyed on exit. A method may create dynamic
objects outside of the current scope in the NameSpace using the scope operator or using full path names. These objects
will still be destroyed on method exit. Objects created at load time outside of the scope of the method are static. For
example:
Scope (\XYZ)
{
Name (BAR, 5)
// Creates \\XYZ.BAR
Method (FOO, 1)
{
CREG = BAR
// same effect as CREG = \XYZ.BAR
Name (BAR, 7)
// Creates \\XYZ.FOO.BAR
(continues on next page)
5.5. Control Methods and the ACPI Source Language (ASL)
299
