Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
8.1.4 Processor Power State C3
This processor power state is optionally supported by the system. If present, the state offers improved power savings
over the C1 and C2 state and is entered by using the P_LVL3 command register for the local processor or an alternative
mechanism as indicated by the _CST object. The worst-case hardware latency for this state is declared in the FADT,
and OSPM can use this information to determine when the C1 or C2 state should be used instead of the C3 state.
While in the C3 state, the processor’s caches maintain state but the processor is not required to snoop bus master or
multiprocessor CPU accesses to memory.
The hardware can exit this state for any reason, but must always exit this state when an interrupt is to be presented to
the processor or when BM_RLD is set and a bus master is attempting to gain access to memory.
OSPM is responsible for ensuring that the caches maintain coherency. In a uniprocessor environment, this can be done
by using the PM2_CNT.ARB_DIS bus master arbitration disable register to ensure bus master cycles do not occur
while in the C3 state. In a multiprocessor environment, the processors’ caches can be flushed and invalidated such that
no dynamic information remains in the caches before entering the C3 state.
There are two mechanisms for supporting the C3 power state:
• Having OSPM flush and invalidate the caches prior to entering the C3 state.
• Providing hardware mechanisms to prevent masters from writing to memory (uniprocessor-only support).
In the first case, OSPM will flush the system caches prior to entering the C3 state. As there is normally much latency
associated with flushing processor caches, OSPM is likely to only support this in multiprocessor platforms for idle
processors. Flushing of the cache is accomplished through one of the defined ACPI mechanisms (described below in
Flushing Caches).
In uniprocessor-only platforms that provide the needed hardware functionality (defined in this section), OSPM will
attempt to place the platform into a mode that will prevent system bus masters from writing into memory while the
processor is in the C3 state. This is accomplished by disabling bus masters prior to entering a C3 power state. Upon a
bus master requesting an access, the CPU will awaken from the C3 state and re-enable bus master accesses.
OSPM uses the BM_STS bit to determine the power state to enter when considering a transition to or from the C2/C3
power state. The BM_STS is an optional bit that indicates when bus masters are active. OSPM uses this bit to determine
the policy between the C2 and C3 power states: a lot of bus master activity demotes the CPU power state to the C2 (or
C1 if C2 is not supported), no bus master activity promotes the CPU power state to the C3 power state. OSPM keeps
a running history of the BM_STS bit to determine CPU power state policy.
The last hardware feature used in the C3 power state is the BM_RLD bit. This bit determines if the Cx power state is
exited as a result of bus master requests. If set, then the Cx power state is exited upon a request from a bus master. If
reset, the power state is not exited upon bus master requests. In the C3 state, bus master requests need to transition the
CPU back to the C0 state (as the system is capable of maintaining cache coherency), but such a transition is not needed
for the C2 state. OSPM can optionally set this bit when using a C3 power state, and clear it when using a C1 or C2
power state.
8.1.5 Additional Processor Power States
ACPI introduced optional processor power states beyond C3 starting in ACPI 2.0. These power states, C4... Cn, are
conveyed to OSPM through the _CST object defined in _CST (C States) These additional power states are characterized
by equivalent operational semantics to the C1 through C3 power states, as defined in the previous sections, but with
different entry/exit latencies and power savings. See _CST (C States) for more information.
8.1. Processor Power States
521
