Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.200 – continued from previous page
Vendor Count
2
4
The number of Vendor Specific Reset Reason entries.
Vendor Specific Re-
set Reason Entry[n]
Varies
6
A series of Vendor Specific Reset Reason Entries.
The vendor portion of the record provides an optional means to store the underlying raw data that was interpreted to
produce the reset reason. Storing the underlying data associated with a reset may allow for further analysis (e.g. an
unexpected reset reason) and insight into the specifics of the reset.
Table 5.201: Reset Reason Health Record Vendor Data Entry
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Vendor Data ID
16
0
A vendor defined GUID that describes this entry type.
Length
2
16
The length of the vendor data entry.
Revision
2
18
Minor.Major Version
Byte 0 (Minor) indicates that changes to the vendor-specific data
are backwards compatible with the Vendor Data ID.
Byte 1 (Major) indicates that changes to the data are not backwards
compatible.
Data
Varies
20
Vendor-specific data payload.
5.2.33 Virtual I/O Translation (VIOT) Table
The Virtual I/O Translation (VIOT) Table describes the topology of para-virtual I/O translation devices (e.g., virtio-
iommu in Linux) and the endpoints they manage. This is analogous to the vendor-specific IOMMU tables currently
defined: the IORT for the ARM SMMU, the DMAR for Intel VT-d, and the IVRS for the AMD IOMMU. In this
case, however, we are defining the topology connecting a hypervisor to a virtual machine through a para-virtualized
IOMMU, instead a vendor-specific device. Since this para-virtualized IOMMU is a software component between the
hypervisor and a virtual machine, the VIOT can be supported across multiple platforms; by defining the VIOT here, we
help ensure consistency across those platforms since a para-virtualized IOMMU cannot be enumerated via any other
mechanisms.
This table is optional. If the VIOT table is present, the OSPM should assume this functionality is available for use and
must be configured properly.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
281
