Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.10 – continued from previous page
USE_PLATFORM_CLOCK
1
15
A value of one indicates that OSPM should use
a platform provided timer to drive any monoton-
ically non-decreasing counters, such as OSPM
performance counter services. Which particular
platform timer will be used is OSPM specific,
however, it is recommended that the timer used is
based on the following algorithm: If the HPET is
exposed to OSPM, OSPM should use the HPET.
Otherwise, OSPM will use the ACPI power man-
agement timer.
A value of one indicates that
the platform is known to have a correctly imple-
mented ACPI power management timer. A plat-
form may choose to set this flag if a internal pro-
cessor clock (or clocks in a multi-processor con-
figuration) cannot provide consistent monotoni-
cally non-decreasing counters. Note: If a value
of zero is present, OSPM may arbitrarily choose
to use an internal processor clock or a platform
timer clock for these operations. That is, a zero
does not imply that OSPM will necessarily use
the internal processor clock to generate a mono-
tonically non-decreasing counter to the system.
S4_RTC_STS_VALID
1
16
A one indicates that the contents of the RTC_STS
flag is valid when waking the system from S4.
See Table 4.11 for more information. Some ex-
isting systems do not reliably set this input to-
day, and this bit allows OSPM to differentiate cor-
rectly functioning platforms from platforms with
this errata.
REMOTE_POWER_ON_CAPABLE
1
17
A one indicates that the platform is compatible
with remote power- on.
That is, the platform
supports OSPM leaving GPE wake events armed
prior to an S5 transition.
Some existing plat-
forms do not reliably transition to S5 with wake
events enabled (for example, the platform may
immediately generate a spurious wake event af-
ter completing the S5 transition). This flag allows
OSPM to differentiate correctly functioning plat-
forms from platforms with this type of errata.
FORCE_APIC_CLUSTER_MODEL
1
18
A one indicates that all local APICs must be con-
figured for the cluster destination model when de-
livering interrupts in logical mode. If this bit is
set, then logical mode interrupt delivery opera-
tion may be undefined until OSPM has moved all
local APICs to the cluster model. This bit is in-
tended for xAPIC based machines that require the
cluster destination model even when 8 or fewer
local APICs are present in the machine.
continues on next page
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
122
