Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 9.5 – continued from previous page
Field
Format
Description
DMA Speed 0
DWORD
The DMA bus-cycle for drive 0 timing in nanoseconds. If bit 0 of the Flags reg-
ister is set, this DMA timing is for UltraDMA mode, otherwise the timing is for
multi-word DMA mode. 0xFFFFFFFF indicates that this mode is not supported
by the channel. If the chipset cannot set timing parameters independently for
each drive, this field represents the timing for both drives.
PIO Speed 1
DWORD
The PIO bus-cycle timing for drive 1 in nanoseconds. 0xFFFFFFFF indicates
that this mode is not supported by the channel. If the chipset cannot set timing
parameters independently for each drive, this field must be 0xFFFFFFFF.
DMA Speed 1
DWORD
The DMA bus-cycle timing for drive 1 in nanoseconds. If bit 0 of the Flags reg-
ister is set, this DMA timing is for UltraDMA mode, otherwise the timing is for
multi-word DMA mode. 0xFFFFFFFF indicates that this mode is not supported
by the channel. If the chipset cannot set timing parameters independently for
each drive, this field must be 0xFFFFFFFF.
Flags
DWORD
Mode flags Bit [0]: 1 indicates using UltraDMA on drive 0 Bit [1]: 1 indicates
IOChannelReady is used on drive 0 Bit [2]: 1 indicates using UltraDMA on drive
1 Bit [3]: 1 indicates IOChannelReady is used on drive 1 Bit [4]: 1 indicates
chipset can set timing independently for each drive Bits [31:5]: reserved (must
be 0)
9.7.2.1.2 _STM (Set Timing Mode)
This Control Method sets the IDE channel’s transfer timings to the setting requested. The AML code is required to
convert and set the nanoseconds timing to the appropriate transfer mode settings for the IDE controller. _STM may
also make adjustments so that _GTF control methods return the correct commands for the current channel settings.
This control method takes three arguments: Channel timing information (as described in Table 9-6), and the ATA drive
ID block for each drive on the channel. The channel timing information is not guaranteed to be the same values as
returned by _GTM; the OS may tune these values as needed.
Arguments:(3)
Arg0 - A Buffer containing a channel timing information block (described in Table 9-6)
Arg1 - A Buffer containing the ATA drive ID block for channel 0
Arg2 - A Buffer containing the ATA drive ID block for channel 1
Return Value:
None
The ATA drive ID block is the raw data returned by the Identify Drive ATA command, which has the command code
“0ECh.” The _STM control method is responsible for correcting for drives that misreport their timing information.
9.7. ATA Controller Devices
607
