Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
11.1.2.2 Resetting Cooling Temperatures to Adjust to Bay Device Insertion or Removal
The platform can adjust the thermal zone temperature to accommodate the maximum operating temperature of a bay
device as necessary. For example:
1. Hardware detects that a device was inserted into or removed from the bay, updates the temperature thresholds,
and then notifies OSPM of the thermal policy change and device insertion events.
2. OSPM re-enumerates the devices and re-evaluates the active and passive cooling temperature trip points.
11.1.2.3 Resetting Cooling Temperatures to Implement Hysteresis
An OEM can build hysteresis into platform thermal design by dynamically resetting cooling temperature thresholds.
For example:
1. When the temperature increases to the designated threshold, OSPM will turn on the associated active cooling
device or perform passive cooling.
2. The platform resets the threshold value to a lower temperature (to implement hysteresis) and notifies OSPM of
the change. Because of this new threshold value, the fan will be turned off at a lower temperature than when it
was turned on (therefore implementing a negative hysteresis).
3. When the temperature hits the lower threshold value, OSPM will turn off the associated active cooling device or
cease passive cooling. The hardware will reset _ACx to its original value and notify OSPM that the trip points
have once again been altered.
11.1.3 Detecting Temperature Changes
The ability of the platform and its devices to asynchronously notify an ACPI-compatible OS of meaningful changes
in the thermal zone’s temperature is a highly desirable capability that relieves OSPM from implementing a poll-based
policy and generally results in a much more responsive and optimal thermal policy implementation. Each notification
instructs OSPM to evaluate whether a trip point has been crossed and allows OSPM to anticipate temperature trends
for the thermal zone.
It is recognized that much of the hardware used to implement thermal zone functionality today is not capable of generat-
ing ACPI-visible notifications (SCIs) or only can do so with wide granularity (for example, only when the temperature
crosses the critical threshold). In these environments, OSPM must poll the thermal zone’s temperature periodically to
implement an effective policy.
While ACPI specifies a mechanism that enables OSPM to poll thermal zone temperature, platform reliance on thermal
zone polling is strongly discouraged by this specification. OEMs should design systems that asynchronously notify
OSPM whenever a meaningful change in the zone’s temperature occurs - relieving OSPM of the overhead associ-
ated with polling. In some cases, embedded controller firmware can overcome limitations of existing thermal sensor
capabilities to provide the desired asynchronous notification.
Notice that the _TZP (thermal zone polling) object is used to indicate whether a thermal zone must be polled by OSPM,
and if so, a recommended polling frequency. See _TZP (Thermal Zone Polling) for more information.
11.1. Thermal Control
723
