Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 14.6 – continued from previous page
Platform Inter-
rupt Ack Write
8
82
Contains a mask of bits to set when writing the platform interrupt ack
register.
ò Note
Inaccurate values for the Maximum Periodic Access Rate and Minimum Request Turnaround Time fields can result
in punitive side effects for features that rely on the PCC interface. The Platform should report accurate values that
allow for maximum channel efficiency while maintaining maximum channel stability.
The Maximum Periodic Access Rate is used by OSPM to determine the maximum rate for periodic evaluation of
commands. Infrequent, event driven commands are not restricted by the maximum periodic access rate.
14.1.6 Extended PCC subspaces (types 3 and 4)
Extended PCC communication subspaces are of two types:
Type 3 Initiator subspace: used by the OSPM to communicate with the platform.
Type 4 Responder subspace: Used by the platform to send asynchronous notifications to the OSPM.
Initiator subspaces are not substantially different from type 0, 1, or 2 subspaces. The most notable difference is that
a type 3 Initiator subspace does not support asynchronous notifications. Responder subspaces, type 4, provide those
notifications, and cannot be used by the OSPM to send messages to the platform.
The format for PCCT entries describing Initiator (type 3), and Responder (type 4) subspaces is shown in the following
table.
Table 14.7: PCC Subspace Structure type 3 and type 4
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Type
1
0
3 - Initiator subspace 4 - Responder subspace
Length
1
1
164
Platform Inter-
rupt
4
2
GSI of an interrupt triggered by the platform: For Initiator subspaces (type
3) this is raised when a command is completed on this subspace. For Re-
sponder subspaces (type 4) this is raised when platform sends a notifica-
tion. For a Initiator subspace, this field is ignored if the platform interrupt
flag in Table 14.2 is set to zero. If a Responder-subspace is present in the
PCCT, then the platform interrupt flag must be set to 1. Note that if in-
terrupts are edge triggered, then each subspace must have its own unique
interrupt. If interrupts are level, a GSI may be shared by multiple sub-
spaces, but each one must have unique Platform interrupt Ack preserve
and Ack Set masks.
Platform Inter-
rupt Flags
1
6
Bit 7:2 Reserved
Bit 1: Platform interrupt mode - Set to 1 if interrupt is Edge triggered -
Set to 0 if interrupt Level triggered
Bit 0: Platform interrupt polarity - Set to 1 if interrupt is Active low - Set
to 0 if interrupt is Active high
Reserved
1
7
Reserved must be zero
continues on next page
14.1. Platform Communications Channel Table
803
