Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
A.4 Audio Device Class
The requirements expressed in this section apply to audio devices
A.4.1 Audio Device Power State Definitions
Table A-3: Audio Device Power State Definitions
State
Status
Definition
D0
Required
Power is on. Device is operating.
D1
Optional
Power consumption is less than D0 state. Device must be able to transition between D0
and D1 states within 100 ms. No audio samples may be lost by entering and leaving
this state.
D2
Required
Power consumption is less than D0 state. Device must be able to transition between
D0 and D2 states within 100 ms. Audio samples may be lost by entering and leaving
this state.
D3
Required
The device is completely off or drawing minimal power. For example, a stereo will be
off, but a light-emitting diode (LED) may be on and the stereo may be listening to IR
commands.
If a device is in the D1 or D2 state it must resume within 100 ms. A device in the D3 state may take as long as it needs
to power up. It is the responsibility of the policy owner to advertise to the system how long a device requires to power
up.
All audio devices must be capable of D0, D2 and D3 states. It is desirable that an audio device be capable of D1 state.
The difference between D1 and D2 is that a device capable of D1 can maintain complete state information in reduced
power mode. The policy owner or other software must save all states for D2-capable devices. Some audio samples may
be lost in transitioning into and out of the D2 state.
Notice that the D1 state was added to allow digital signal processor (DSP)-equipped audio hardware to exploit low-
power modes in the DSP. For example, a DSP may be used to implement Dolby AC-3 Decode. When paused it stops
playing audio, but the DSP may contain thousands of bytes worth of state information. If the DSP supports a low-power
state, it can shut down and later resume from exactly the audio sample where it paused without losing state information.
A.4.2 Audio Device Power Management Policy
For the purpose of the following state transition policy, the following device-specific operational states are defined:
• Playing. Audio is playing.
• Recording:
• Foreground. Normal application is recording. Recording is considered foreground unless specifically desig-
nated low priority.
• Background. Speech recognition or speech activity detection is running. Recording may be preempted by
foreground recording or playing. Any audio recording may be designated as background.
• Full Duplex. Device is simultaneously playing and recording.
• Paused. File handle is open. Only devices that are playing, foreground recording or in full duplex operation may
be paused. Background recording may not be paused. State is static and never lost. The paused state assumes
that a device must transition to the resumed state rapidly. Playing or recording must be resumed within 100 ms.
No audio samples may be lost between the device is paused and later resumed.
A.4. Audio Device Class
1094
