Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
3.6 Device and Processor Performance States
This section describes the concept of device and processor performance states. Device and processor performance states
(Px states) are power consumption and capability states within the active/executing states, C0 for processors and D0 for
devices. Performance states allow OSPM to make tradeoffs between performance and energy conservation. Device and
processor performance states have the greatest impact when the states invoke different device and processor efficiency
levels as opposed to a linear scaling of performance and energy consumption. Since performance state transitions occur
in the active/executing device states, care must be taken to ensure that performance state transitions do not adversely
impact the system.
Examples of device performance states include:
• A hard drive that provides levels of maximum throughput that correspond to levels of power consumption.
• An LCD panel that supports multiple brightness levels that correspond to levels of power consumption.
• A graphics component that scales performance between 2D and 3D drawing modes that corresponds to levels of
power consumption.
• An audio subsystem that provides multiple levels of maximum volume that correspond to levels of maximum
power consumption.
• A Direct-RDRAMTM controller that provides multiple levels of memory throughput performance, correspond-
ing to multiple levels of power consumption, by adjusting the maximum bandwidth throttles.
Processor performance states are described in Processor Configuration and Control
3.7 Configuration and “Plug and Play”
In addition to power management, ACPI interfaces provide controls and information that enable OSPM to configure the
required resources of motherboard devices along with their dynamic insertion and removal. ACPI Definition Blocks,
including the Differentiated System Description Table (DSDT) and Secondary System Description Tables (SSDTs),
describe motherboard devices in a hierarchical format called the ACPI namespace. The OS enumerates motherboard
devices simply by reading through the ACPI Namespace looking for devices with hardware IDs.
Each device enumerated by ACPI includes ACPI-defined objects in the ACPI Namespace that report the hardware
resources that the device could occupy, an object that reports the resources that are currently used by the device, and
objects for configuring those resources. The information is used by the Plug and Play OS (OSPM) to configure the
devices.
ò Note
When preparing to boot a system, the platform boot firmware only needs to configure boot devices. This includes
boot devices described in the ACPI system description tables as well as devices that are controlled through other
standards.
3.6. Device and Processor Performance States
40
