Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
12.9 SMBus Host Controller Interface via Embedded Controller
This section specifies a standard interface that an ACPI-compatible OS can use to communicate with embedded
controller-based SMBus host controllers (EC-SMB-HC). This interface allows the host processor (under control of
OSPM) to manage devices on the SMBus. Typical devices residing on the SMBus include Smart Batteries, Smart
Battery Chargers, contrast/backlight control, and temperature sensors.
The EC-SMB-HC interface consists of a block of registers that reside in embedded controller space. These registers
are used by software to initiate SMBus transactions and receive SMBus notifications. By using a well-defined register
set, OS software can be written to operate with any vendor’s embedded controller hardware.
Certain SMBus segments have special requirements that the host controller filters certain SMBus commands (for ex-
ample, to prevent an errant application or virus from potentially damaging the battery subsystem). This is most easily
accomplished by implementing the host interface controller through an embedded controller–as embedded controller
can easily filter out potentially problematic commands.
Notice that an EC-SMB-HC interface will require the inclusion of the GLK method in its ACPI namespace if potentially
contentious accesses to device resources are performed by non-OS code. See _GLK (Global Lock) for details on using
the _GLK method.
12.9.1 Register Description
The EC-SMBus host interface is a flat array of registers that are arranged sequentially in the embedded controller
address space.
12.9.1.1 Status Register, SMB_STS
This register indicates general status on the SMBus. This includes SMB-HC command completion status, alarm re-
ceived status, and error detection status (the error codes are defined later in this section). This register is cleared to
zeroes (except for the ALRM bit) whenever a new command is issued using a write to the protocol (SMB_PRTCL)
register. This register is always written with the error code before clearing the protocol register. The SMB-HC query
event (that is, an SMB-HC interrupt) is raised after the clearing of the protocol register.
ò Note
OSPM must ensure the ALRM bit is cleared after it has been serviced by writing ‘00’ to the SMB_STS register.
Table 12.10: Status Register, SMB_STS
Bit7
Bit6
Bit5
Bit4
Bit3
Bit2
Bit1
Bit0
Done
ALRM
RES
STATUS
Where:
DONE:
Indicates the last command has completed and no error.
ALRM:
Indicates an SMBus alarm message has been received.
RES:
Reserved
STATUS:
Indicates SMBus communication status for one of the reasons listed in the following table.
12.9. SMBus Host Controller Interface via Embedded Controller
770
