Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
11.2.3 Fan Device Notifications
Notify events of type 0x80 will cause OSPM to evaluate the _FST object to evaluate the fan’s current speed.
11.3 Fan Device
ACPI 1.0 defined a simple fan device that is assumed to be in operation when it is in the D0 state. Thermal zones
reference fan device(s) as being responsible primarily for cooling within that zone. Notice that multiple fan devices
can be present for any one thermal zone. They might be actual different fans, or they might be used to implement one
fan of multiple speeds (for example, by turning both “fans” on the one fan will run full speed).
ACPI 4.0 defines additional fan device interface objects enabling OSPM to perform more robust active cooling thermal
control. These objects are summarized (see Table 11.1 below). OSPM requires that all of the objects listed in the table
below be defined under a fan device to enable advanced active cooling control. The absence of any of these objects
causes OSPM to perform ACPI 1.0 style simple fan control .
The Plug and Play ID of a fan device is PNP0C0B.
Table 11.1: Fan Specific Objects
Object
Description
_FIF
Returns fan device information.
_FPS
Returns a list of supported fan performance states.
_FSL
Control method that sets the fan device’s speed level (performance state).
_FST
Returns current status information for a fan device.
While the Fan Device and its associated objects are optional, if the Fan Device is implemented by the platform, all
objects listed in the table above are required and must be provided.
11.3.1 Fan Objects
11.3.1.1 _FIF (Fan Information)
The optional _FIF object provides OSPM with fan device capability information.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A Package containing the fan device parameters as described in the table below
_FIF evaluation returns a package of the following format:
Package (){
Revision,
// Integer
FineGrainControl,
// Integer Boolean
StepSize
// Integer DWORD
LowSpeedNotificationSupport
// Integer Boolean
}
11.3. Fan Device
730
