Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 4.1: Generic Hardware Feature Model
PowerResource object (which controls the value added power plane) in its namespace, and associated with that object
would be control methods that OSPM invokes to control the D3 state of the drive:
• _PS0: A control method to sequence the IDE drive to the D0 state.
• _PS3: A control method to sequence the IDE drive to the D3 state.
• _PSC: A control method that returns the status of the IDE drive (on or off).
The control methods under this object provide an abstraction layer between OSPM and the hardware. OSPM under-
stands how to control power planes (turn them on or off or to get their status) through its defined PowerResource
object, while the hardware has platform-specific AML code (contained in the appropriate control methods) to perform
the desired function. In this example, the platform would describe its hardware to the ACPI OS by writing and placing
the AML code to turn the hardware off within the _PS3 control method. This enables the following sequence:
When OSPM decides to place the IDE drive in the D3 state, it calls the IDE driver and tells it to place the drive into
the D3 state (at which point the driver saves the device’s context).
When the IDE driver returns control, OSPM places the drive in the D3 state.
OSPM finds the object associated with the HDD and then finds within that object any AML code associated with the
D3 state.
OSPM executes the appropriate _PS3 control method to control the value-added “generic” hardware to place the HDD
into an even lower power state.
As an example of a generic event feature, a platform might have a docking capability. In this case, it will want to generate
an event. Notice that all ACPI events generate an SCI, which can be mapped to any shareable system interrupt. In the
case of docking, the event is generated when a docking has been detected or when the user requests to undock the
system. This enables the following sequence:
OSPM responds to the SCI and calls the AML code event handler associated with that generic event. The ACPI table
associates the hardware event with the AML code event handler.
The AML-code event handler collects the appropriate information and then executes an AML Notify command to
indicate to OSPM that a particular bus needs re-enumeration.
The following sections describe the fixed and generic hardware feature set of ACPI. These sections enable a reader to
understand the following:
• Which hardware registers are required or optional when an ACPI feature, concept or interface is required by a
design guide for a platform class
4.3. Generic Hardware Programming Model
55
