Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
12.4 SMBus
Host
Controller
Notification
Header
(Optional),
OS_SMB_EVT
This query command notification header is the special return code that indicates events with an SMBus controller
implemented within an embedded controller. These events include:
• Command completion
• Command error
• Alarm reception
The actual notification value is declared in the EC-SMB-HC device object in the ACPI Namespace.
12.5 Embedded Controller Firmware
The embedded controller firmware must obey the following rules in order to be ACPI-compatible:
• SMI Processing. Although it is not explicitly stated in the command specification section, a shared embedded
controller interface has a separate command set for communicating with each environment it plans to support.
In other words, the embedded controller knows which environment is generating the command request, as well
as which environment is to be notified upon event detection, and can then generate the correct interrupts and
notification values. This implies that a system management handler uses commands that parallel the functionality
of all the commands for ACPI including query, read, write, and any other implemented specific commands.
• SCI/SMI Task Queuing. If the system design is sharing the interface between both a system management
interrupt handler and OSPM, the embedded controller should always be prepared to queue a notification if it
receives a command. The embedded controller only sets the appropriate event flag in the status (EC_SC) register
if the controller has detected an event that should be communicated to the OS or system management handler. The
embedded controller must be able to field commands from either environment without loss of the notification
event. At some later time, the OS or system management handler issues a query command to the embedded
controller to request the cause of the notification event.
• Notification Management. The use of the embedded controller means using the query (QR_EC) command to
notify OSPM of system events requiring action. If the embedded controller is shared with the operating system,
the SMI handler uses the SMI_EVT flag and an SMI query command (not defined in this document) to receive
the event notifications. The embedded controller doesn’t place event notifications into the output buffer of a
shared interface unless it receives a query command from OSPM or the system management interrupt handler.
12.6 Interrupt Model
The EC Interrupt Model uses pulsed interrupts to speed the clearing process. The Interrupt is firmware generated
using an EC general-purpose output and has the waveform shown in Interrupt Model . The embedded controller SCI is
always wired directly to a GPE input or a GPIO pin, and OSPM driver treats this as an edge event (the EC SCI cannot
be shared).
12.4. SMBus Host Controller Notification Header (Optional), OS_SMB_EVT
767
