Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
18.5.1.2 Serialization Instruction Entries
Each Serialization Action consists of a series of one or more Serialization Instructions. A Serialization Instruction
represents a primitive operation on an abstracted hardware register represented by the register region as defined in a
Serialization Instruction Entry.
A Serialization Instruction Entry describes a region in a serialization hardware register and the serialization instruction
to be performed on that region. The following table details the layout of a Serialization Instruction Entry.
Table 18.20: Serialization Instruction Entry
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Serialization Action
1
N+0
The serialization action that this serialization instruction is a part of.
Instruction
1
N+1
Identifies the instruction to execute. See the Serialization Instruc-
tions table for a list of valid serialization instructions.
Flags
1
N+2
Flags that qualify the instruction.
Reserved
1
N+3
Must be zero.
Register Region
12
N+4
Generic Address Structure as defined in Section 5.2.3.2 to describe
the address and bit.
Value
8
N+16
Value
used
with
READ_REGISTER_VALUE
and
WRITE_REGISTER_VALUE instructions.
Mask
8
N+24
The bit mask required to obtain the bits corresponding to the serial-
ization instruction in a given bit range defined by the register region.
Register Region is described as a generic address structure. This structure describes the physical address of a register
as well as the bit range that corresponds to a desired region of the register. The bit range is defined as the smallest set of
consecutive bits that contains every bit in the register that is associated with the Serialization Instruction. If bits [6:5]
and bits [3:2] all correspond to a Serialization Instruction, the bit range for that instruction would be [6:2].
Because a bit range could contain bits that do not pertain to a particular Serialization Instruction (i.e. bit 4 in the
example above), a bit mask is required to distinguish all the bits in the region that correspond to the instruction. The
Mask field is defined to be this bit mask with a bit set to ‘1’ for each bit in the bit range (defined by the register region)
corresponding to the Serialization Instruction. Note that bit 0 of the bit mask corresponds to the lowest bit in the bit
range. In the example used above, the mask would be 11011b or 0x1B.
The Instruction field identifies the operation to be performed on the register region by the instruction entry. The
following table identifies the instructions that are supported.
Table 18.21: Serialization Instructions
Value
Name
Description
0x00
READ_REGISTER
A READ_REGISTER instruction reads the designated
information from the specified Register Region.
0x01
READ_REGISTER_VALUE
A READ_REGISTER_VALUE instruction reads the
designated information from the specified Register Re-
gion and compares the results with the contents of the
Value field. If the information read matches the contents
of the Value field, TRUE is returned, else FALSE is re-
turned.
0x02
WRITE_REGISTER
A WRITE_REGISTER instruction writes a value to the
specified Register Region. The Value field is ignored.
continues on next page
18.5. Error Serialization
869
