Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 9.5: Persistence of expired timer events
expired wake timer must be cleared if the OSPM requires the platform to stay in S3 (S4/S5), otherwise the expired
timers will immediately wake up the system.
For the AC/DC wake services, and in case the current power source is inconsistent with the timer type that expires,
an expired timer wake policy value, in units of seconds, is defined that enables the time and alarm device to wake the
system when the power source corresponding to the expired timer becomes active (wake either immediately, after some
time period, or never). The expired timer wake policy is applicable only on devices that support AC/DC wake and only
when the timer expires and the power source is not consistent with the timer type. The expired timer policy is applied
in conjunction with expired timer persistence described earlier.
For example, if a mobile platform programs the AC timer to be 2 hours long and DC timer to be 4 hours long and then
transitions from the S0 state to S3 state at 1:00 AM, the AC timer is set to expire at 3:00 AM and the DC timer is set
to expire at 5:00 AM. For the AC Timer, a expired timer wake policy value is programmed as 60 seconds.
If the platform is unplugged from AC power at 1:40 AM and remains unplugged, the Time and Alarm Device will not
wake up the system at 3:00 AM. If the platform remains on DC power until 5:00 AM when the DC timer expires, a
wake signal will then be asserted. The following graph illustrates the above example.
If the AC power is plugged in again at 4:00 AM, then the system will be woken up at 4:01 AM due to the AC expired
timer wake policy value setting. The following graph illustrates this.
The Time and Alarm device can support a range of services, the OSPM evaluates the _GCP object to get the supported
capabilities of the device. If the capabilities indicate that the device supports time services, the OSPM evaluates the
_GRT and _SRT objects to get and set time respectively.
If alarm services are supported by the device, the OSPM evaluates the _STV object to program both the AC and DC
timer values. The values, which are in units of seconds, indicate the elapsed time before the timer expires. OSPM
evaluates the _TIV object to read the current AC and DC timer values (seconds remaining until expiration).
OSPM evaluates the _STP object to set timer policies for both the AC and DC timers OSPM reads the current timer
policy by evaluating the _TIP object, which return policy settings for both the AC and DC timer.
The OSPM evaluates the _GWS object to identify expired timers that may have waked the platform. The OSPM
must evaluate the _CWS object to clear any expired timer events that can prevent the system from performing a sleep
transition according the expired timer wake policy, and the expired timer persistence described above.
9.17. Time and Alarm Device
638
