Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.221 – continued from previous page
0x0C-0x7E
Reserved
0x07F
FFixedHW (FFH)
See
Declaring
Functional
Fixed
Hard-
ware (FFH) Operation Regions (Section
5.5.2.4.2).
0x80 to 0xFF
OEM defined
5.5.2.4.2 Declaring Functional Fixed Hardware (FFH) Operation Regions
The syntax for declaring and using the Functional Fixed Hardware (FFH) Operation Region is architecture specific.
Please refer to architecture specific documentation for the definition. For ARM FFixedHW Operation Region definition,
see Links to ACPI-Related Documents (https://uefi.org/acpi) under the heading “ARM FFH Specification”.
The use of functional fixed hardware carries with it a reliance on OS specific software that must be considered. OEMs
should consult OS vendors to ensure that specific functional fixed hardware interfaces are supported by specific op-
erating systems. The OS and the platform can handshake on support for the FFH Operation Regions using the _OSC
method as described in Platform-Wide OSPM Capabilities.
5.5.2.4.3 CMOS Protocols
This section describes how CMOS battery-backed non-volatile memory can be accessed from ASL. Most computers
contain an RTC/CMOS device that can be represented as a linear array of bytes of non-volatile memory. There is
a standard mechanism for accessing the first 64 bytes of non-volatile RAM in devices that are compatible with the
Motorola RTC/CMOS device used in the original IBM PC/AT. Existing RTC/CMOS devices typically contain more
than 64 bytes of non-volatile RAM, and no standard mechanism exists for access to this additional storage area. To
provide access to all of the non-volatile memory in these devices from AML, PnP IDs exist for each type of extension.
These are PNP0B00, PNP0B01, and PNP0B02. The specific devices that these PnP IDs support are described in PC/AT
RTC/CMOS Devices, along with field definition ASL example code. The drivers corresponding to these device handle
operation region accesses to the SystemCMOS operation region for their respective device types.
All bytes of CMOS that are related to the current time, day, date, month, year and century are read-only.
5.5.2.4.4 PCI Device BAR Target Protocols
This section describes how PCI devices’ control registers can be accessed from ASL. PCI devices each have an address
space associated with them called the Configuration Space. At offset 0x10 through offset 0x27, there are as many as
six Base Address Registers, (BARs). These BARs contain the base address of a series of control registers (in I/O or
Memory space) for the PCI device. Since a Plug and Play OS may change the values of these BARs at any time, ASL
cannot read and write from these deterministically using I/O or Memory operation regions. Furthermore, a Plug and
Play OS will automatically assign ownership of the I/O and Memory regions associated with these BARs to a device
driver associated with the PCI device. An ACPI OS (which must also be a Plug and Play operating system) will not
allow ASL to read and write regions that are owned by native device drivers.
If a platform uses a PCI BAR Target operation region, an ACPI OS will not load a native device driver for the associated
PCI function. For example, if any of the BARs in a PCI function are associated with a PCI BAR Target operation region,
then the OS will assume that the PCI function is to be entirely under the control of the ACPI system firmware. No driver
will be loaded. Thus, a PCI function can be used as a platform controller for some task (hot-plug PCI, and so on) that
the ACPI system firmware performs.
5.5. Control Methods and the ACPI Source Language (ASL)
301
