Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
10.1.3 _SBS (Smart Battery Subsystem)
The _SBS control method returns the configuration of the Smart Battery subsystem. This named object returns a
DWORD value with a number from 0 to 4. If the number of batteries is greater than 0, then the Smart Battery driver
assumes that a Smart Battery System Manager or Smart Battery Selector is present. If 0, then the Smart Battery driver
assumes a single Smart Battery and neither a Smart Battery System Manager nor Smart Battery Selector is present.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
The DWORD returned by _SBS is an Integer containing the Smart Battery subsystem configuration:
• 0 - Maximum of one Smart Battery and no Smart Battery System Manager or Smart Battery Selector.
• 1 - Maximum of one Smart Battery and a Smart Battery System Manager or Smart Battery Selector.
• 2 - Maximum of two Smart Batteries and a Smart Battery System Manager or Smart Battery Selector.
• 3 - Maximum of three Smart Batteries and a Smart Battery System Manager or Smart Battery Selector.
• 4 - Maximum of four Smart Batteries and a Smart Battery System Manager or Smart Battery Selector.
The maximum number of batteries is for the entire system. Therefore, if the platform is capable of supporting four
batteries, but only two are normally present in the system, then this field should return 4. Notice that a value of 0
indicates a maximum support of one battery and there is no Smart Battery System Manager or Smart Battery Selector
present in the system
As the SMBus is not an enumerable bus, all devices on the bus must be declared in the ACPI name-space. As the
Smart Battery driver understands Smart Battery, Smart Battery Charger, and Smart Battery System Manager or Smart
Battery Selector; only a single device needs to be declared per Smart Battery subsystem. The driver gets information
about the subsystem through the hardware ID (which defines a Smart Battery subsystem) and the number of Smart
Batteries supported on this subsystem (_SBS named object). The ACPI Smart Battery table indicates the energy levels
of the platform at which the system should warn the user and then enter a sleeping state. The Smart Battery driver then
reflects these as threshold alarms for the Smart Batteries.
A Smart Battery device declaration in the ACPI namespace requires the _GLK object if potentially contentious accesses
to device resources are performed by non-OS code. See _GLK (Global Lock) for details about the _GLK object.
10.1.3.1 Example: Single Smart Battery Subsystem
This section illustrates how to define a Smart Battery subsystem containing a single Smart Battery and charger. The
platform implementation is illustrated below:
In this example, the platform is using an SMB-HC that resides within the embedded controller and meets the ACPI
standard for an embedded controller interface and SMB-HC interface. The embedded controller interface sits at system
I/O port addresses 0x62 and 0x66. The SMB-HC is at base address 0x80 within embedded controller address space
(as defined by the ACPI embedded controller specification) and responds to events on query value 0x30.
In this example the Smart Battery subsystem only supports a single Smart Battery. The ASL code for describing this
interface is shown below:
Device (EC0) {
Name (_HID, EISAID("PNP0C09"))
Name (_CRS,
ResourceTemplate () {
// port 0x62 and 0x66
IO (Decode16, 0x62, 0x62, 0, 1),
IO (Decode16, 0x66, 0x66, 0, 1)
(continues on next page)
10.1. Smart Battery Subsystems
686
