Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
9.19.7.9 Function Index 7 - ARS Error Inject
ARS Error Inject allows the injection of an error for the memory range in the defined input payload. Input is a package
containing a single buffer, where the buffer is formatted as shown in ARS Error Inject - Input Format.
9.19.7.9.1 Input (Arg3)
Table 9.31: ARS Error Inject - Input Format
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
ARS
Error
Inject
SPA Range Base
8
0
Starting location from which to inject the error.
ARS
Error
Inject
SPA Range Length
8
8
In bytes Length of the region to inject the error from. If Length
makes the range cross NVDIMM SPA ranges, the system firmware
implementation may report more than one ARS error record in the
output buffer of the ARS Query Status _DSM function.
ARS
Error
Inject
Options
1
16
Bit 0: Unconsumed Uncorrectable Memory Error Detected
Notification. Set to 1 Firmware shall notify the OSPM. Set to 0 the
notification will not occur.
Bit 1: Force Overflow. Set to 1 to trigger a Query ARS Status
overflow condition with this range. A value of 0 is ignored. See
below for details.
Bit 2: Persistent Error. Set to 1 to persist this error across reboots.
These are uncorrectable errors injected to specified memory
locations. Set to 0 to ensure this error is cleared on reboot.
Bits 7-3: Reserved.
OSPM can trigger a Query ARS Status overflow condition by setting the Force Overflow bit (bit 1) in the ARS Error
Inject Options in the input structure.
If the Force Overflow bit is set to 0 then the platform may still trigger an overflow condition if necessary (e.g. the
number of error records to return from Query ARS Status exceeds Query ARS Status Data Size).
The typical sequence to force an overflow condition is as follows:
1. OSPM calls ARS Error Inject to inject an error for a particular range and sets the following fields in the
input structure:
a. ARS Error Inject Options bit 0 to 0 so that the Unconsumed Uncorrectable Memory Error
Detected notification does not occur for this range.
b. ARS Error Inject Options bit 1 set to 1 to indicate system firmware should force an overflow
condition when it encounters this range.
2. OSPM injects a second error with ARS Error inject, setting ARS Error Inject Options bit 0 to 1 and
clearing bit 1 to 0.
3. System firmware notifies the OSPM of the new errors with the Unconsumed Uncorrectable Memory
Error Detected notification.
4. OSPM calls Query ARS Status in response to the notification.
9.19. NVDIMM Devices
667
