Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
11.4.12 _RTV (Relative Temperature Values)
This optional object may be present under a device or a thermal zone and is evaluated by OSPM to determine whether
the values returned by temperature trip point and current operating temperature interfaces under the corresponding
device or thermal zone represent absolute or relative temperature values.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing a relative versus absolute indicator:
0 Temperatures are absolute Other Temperatures are relative
The return value is an integer that indicates whether values returned by temperature trip point and current operating
temperature interfaces represent absolute or relative temperature values.
If the _RTV object is not present or is present and evaluates to zero then OSPM assumes that all values returned by
temperature trip point and current operating temperature interfaces under the device or thermal zone represent absolute
temperature values expressed in tenths of degrees Kelvin.
If the _RTV object is present and evaluates to a non zero value then all values returned by temperature trip point
and current operating temperature interfaces under the corresponding device or thermal zone represent temperature
values relative to a zero point that is defined as the maximum value of the device’s or thermal zone’s critical cooling
temperature trip point. In this case, temperature trip point and current operating temperature interfaces return values
in units that are tenths of degrees below the zero point.
OSPM evaluates the _RTV object before evaluating any other temperature trip point or current operating temperature
interfaces.
11.4.13 _SCP (Set Cooling Policy)
This optional object is a control method that OSPM invokes to set the platform’s cooling mode policy setting. The
platform may use the evaluation of _SCP to reassign _ACx and _PSV temperature trip points according to the mode
or limits conveyed by OSPM. OSPM will automatically evaluate _ACx and _PSV objects after executing _SCP. This
object may exist under a thermal zone or a device.
Arguments:(3)
Arg0 - Mode An Integer containing the cooling mode policy code
Arg1 - AcousticLimit An Integer containing the acoustic limit
Arg2 - PowerLimit An Integer containing the power limit
Return Value:
None
Argument Information:
Mode - 0 = Active, 1 = Passive
Acoustic Limit - Specifies the maximum acceptable acoustic level that active cooling devices may generate. Values are
1 to 5 where 1 means no acoustic tolerance and 5 means maximum acoustic tolerance.
Power Limit - Specifies the maximum acceptable power level that active cooling devices may consume. Values are
from 1 to 5 where 1 means no power may be used to cool and 5 means maximum power may be used to cool.
11.4. Thermal Objects
741
