Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5.5.2.4.4.1 Declaring a PCI BAR Target Operation Region
PCI BARs contain the base address of an I/O or Memory region that a PCI device’s control registers lie within. Each
BAR implements a protocol for determining whether those control registers are within I/O or Memory space and how
much address space the PCI device decodes. (See the PCI Specification for more details.)
PCI BAR Target operation regions are declared by providing the offset of the BAR within the PCI device’s PCI config-
uration space. The BAR determines whether the actual access to the device occurs through an I/O or Memory cycle,
not by the declaration of the operation region. The length of the region is similarly implied.
In the term OperationRegion(PBAR, PciBarTarget, 0x10, 0x4), the offset is the offset of the BAR within the configu-
ration space of the device. This would be an example of an operation region that uses the first BAR in the device.
5.5.2.4.4.2 PCI Header Types and PCI BAR Target Operation Regions
PCI BAR Target operation regions may only be declared in the scope of PCI devices that have a PCI Header Type of
0. PCI devices with other header types are bridges. The control of PCI bridges is beyond the scope of ASL.
5.5.2.4.5 Declaring IPMI Operation Regions
This section describes the Intelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI) address space and the use of this address
space to communicate with the Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) hardware from AML.
Similar to SMBus, IPMI operation regions are command based, where each offset within an IPMI address space repre-
sent an IPMI command and response pair. Given this uniqueness, IPMI operation regions include restrictions on their
field definitions and require the use of an IPMI-specific data buffer for all transactions. The IPMI interface presented in
this section is intended for use with any hardware implementation compatible with the IPMI specification, regardless
of the system interface type.
Support of the IPMI generic address space by ACPI-compatible operating systems is optional, and is contingent on the
existence of an ACPI IPMI device, i.e. a device with the “IPI0001” plug and play ID. If present, OSPM should load
the necessary driver software based on the system interface type as specified by the _IFT (IPMI Interface Type) control
method under the device, and register handlers for accesses into the IPMI operation region space.
For more information, refer to the IPMI specification.
Each IPMI operation region definition identifies a single IPMI network function. Operation regions are defined only
for those IPMI network functions that need to be accessed from AML. As with other regions, IPMI operation regions
are only accessible via the Field term (see Declaring IPMI Fields ).
This interface models each IPMI network function as having a 256-byte linear address range. Each byte offset within
this range corresponds to a single command value (for example, byte offset 0xC1 equates to command value 0xC1),
with a maximum of 256 command values. By doing this, IPMI address spaces appear linear and can be processed in a
manner similar to the other address space types.
The syntax for the OperationRegion term (from OperationRegion (Declare Operation Region) ) is described below:
OperationRegion (
RegionName,
// NameString
RegionSpace,
// RegionSpaceKeyword
Offset,
// TermArg=>Integer
Length
// TermArg=>Integer
)
Where:
5.5. Control Methods and the ACPI Source Language (ASL)
302
