Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
If OSPM aborts the sleep transition process, OSPM will still run _TTS for an S0 transition to indicate the OSPM has
returned to the S0 state. The platform must assume that if OSPM invokes the _TTS control method for an S1, S2, S3,
or S4 transition, that OSPM will invoke _TTS control method for an S0 transition before returning to the S0 state.
The platform must not make any assumptions about the state of the machine when _TTS is called. For example,
operation region accesses that require devices to be configured and enabled may not succeed, as these devices may be
in a non-decoding state due to plug and play or power management operations.
7.4.5 \_WAK (System Wake)
After the system wakes from a sleeping state, it will invoke the \_WAK method and pass the sleeping state value that has
ended. This operation occurs asynchronously with other driver notifications in the system and is not the first action to
be taken when the system wakes. The AML code for this control method issues device, thermal, and other notifications
to ensure that OSPM checks the state of devices, thermal zones, and so on, that could not be maintained during the
system sleeping state. For example, if the system cannot determine whether a device was inserted or removed from a
bus while in the S2 state, the _WAK method would issue a devicecheck type of notification for that bus when issued
with the sleeping state value of 2 (for more information about types of notifications, see Device Object Notifications.
Notice that a device check notification from the _SB node will cause OSPM to re-enumerate the entire tree. Only
buses that support hardware-defined enumeration methods are done automatically at run-time. This would include
ACPI-enumerated devices.
Hardware is not obligated to track the state needed to supply the resulting status; however, this method must return status
concerning the last sleep operation initiated by OSPM. The return values can be used to provide additional information
to OSPM or user.
Arguments:
Arg0 - An Integer containing the value of the sleeping state (1 for S1, 2 for S2, etc.)
Return value:
A Package containing two Integers containing status and the power supply S-state
Return Value Information
_WAK returns a package with the following format:
Element 0 - An Integer containing a bitfield that represents conditions that occurred during sleep:
• 0x00000000 - Wake was signaled and was successful
• 0x00000001 - Wake was signaled but failed due to lack of power
• 0x00000002 - Wake was signaled but failed due to thermal condition
• Other values - Reserved
Element 1 - An Integer containing the power supply S-state:
If non-zero, this is the effective S-state the power supply that was actually entered. This value is used to
detect when the targeted S-state was not entered because of too much current being drawn from the power
supply. For example, this might occur when some active device’s current consumption pushes the system’s
power requirements over the low power supply mark, thus preventing the deeper system sleeping state from
being entered as desired.
7.4. OEM-Supplied System-Level Control Methods
514
