Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 8.21: PState Package Values
Element
Object Type
Description
Core Frequency
Integer (DWORD)
Indicates the core CPU operating frequency (in MHz).
Power
Integer (DWORD)
Indicates the performance state’s maximum power dissipation (in
milliwatts).
Latency
Integer (DWORD)
Indicates the worst-case latency in microseconds that the CPU is un-
available during a transition from any performance state to this per-
formance state.
Bus Master Latency
Integer (DWORD)
Indicates the worst-case latency in microseconds that Bus Masters
are prevented from accessing memory during a transition from any
performance state to this performance state.
Control
Integer (DWORD)
Indicates the value to be written to the Performance Control Register
(PERF_CTRL) in order to initiate a transition to the performance
state.
Status
Integer (DWORD)
Indicates the value that OSPM will compare to a value read from
the Performance Status Register (PERF_STATUS) to ensure that the
transition to the performance state was successful. OSPM may al-
ways place the CPU in the lowest power state, but additional states
are only available when indicated by the _PPC method.
8.4.5.3 _PPC (Performance Present Capabilities)
This optional object is a method that dynamically indicates to OSPM the number of performance states currently sup-
ported by the platform. This method returns a number that indicates the _PSS entry number of the highest performance
state that OSPM can use at a given time. OSPM may choose the corresponding state entry in the _PSS as indicated by
the value returned by the _PPC method or any lower power (higher numbered) state entry in the _PSS.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the range of states supported
0 - States 0 through nth state are available (all states available)
1 - States 1 through nth state are available
2 - States 2 through nth state are available
...
n - State n is available only
In order to support dynamic changes of _PPC object, Notify events on the processor object are allowed. Notify events
of type 0x80 will cause OSPM to reevaluate any _PPC objects residing under the particular processor object notified.
This allows AML code to notify OSPM when the number of supported states may have changed as a result of an
asynchronous event (AC insertion/removal, docked, undocked, and so on).
8.4. Declaring Processors
563
