Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 18.35 – continued from previous page
Component
Syn-
drome
16
16
Component Syndrome definition depends on the EINJv2 Error
Type.
- Processor Error (0x1):
The usage of these bits is vendor specific.
- Memory Error (0x2):
This indicates the bit mask of data bits to flip within a
memory device. (e.g., If the set syndrome bit value is zero, it
is flipped to one. And if the set syndrome bit value is one, it
is flipped to zero). The range of valid bits depends on the
device specified by Component ID.
Example 1: For a DDR4 18x4 memory device topology with
a burst length of 8 (e.g., 64-byte cache line in a single burst),
there will be up to 32 valid bits per device that may be
modified per burst. If bit 3 in this mask is set, then bit offset
3 in that burst will be flipped.
Example 2: For a DDR5 5x8 memory device topology with a
burst length of 16 (e.g., 64-byte cache line in a single burst),
there will be up to 128 valid bits per device that may be
modified per burst.
- PCIe Error (0x4):
The usage of these bits is vendor specific.
Notes:
1) For support of vendor specific data, the “Vendor Error Type Extension Structure” must be present so that software
can identify the platform (see Table 18.32).
2) If any Component ID or Component Syndrome value is not supported by the platform, the EXE-
CUTE_OPERATION action will fail, and the GET_COMMAND_STATUS action will return Invalid Access
(0x2).
18.6.5 Trigger Action Table
An error injection operation is a two-step process where the error is injected into the platform and subsequently trig-
gered. After software injects an error into the platform using the EXECUTE_OPERATION action, it then needs to
trigger the error. In order to trigger the error, software executes the GET_TRIGGER_ERROR_ACTION_TABLE ac-
tion, which returns a pointer to a Trigger Error Action table. The format of this table is shown in the table below.
Software then executes the instruction entries specified in the Trigger Error Action Table in order to trigger the injected
error.
Table 18.36: Trigger Error Action
TRIGGER_ERROR Header
Byte Length
Byte Offset
Description
Header Size
4
0
Length in bytes of this header.
Revision
4
4
Table Size
4
8
Size in Bytes of the entire table.
continues on next page
18.6. Error Injection
885
