Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
When a system component heats up enough to trigger a trip point, a thermal zone GPE occurs.
The GPE causes an interrupt to occur. When the ACPI subsystem receives the interrupt, it first checks whether any
fixed events have occurred. In this example, the thermal zone event is a GPE, so no fixed event has occurred.
The ACPI subsystem then searches the namespace for the control method that matches the GPE number of the interrupt.
Upon finding it, the ACPI subsystem evaluates the control method, which might then access hardware and/or notify the
thermal zone handler.
The operating system’s thermal zone handler then takes whatever actions are necessary to handle the event, including
possibly accessing hardware.
ACPI is a very robust interface implementation. The thermal zone trip point could notify the system to turn on a fan,
reduce a device’s performance, read the temperature, shut down the system, or any combination of these and other
actions depending on the need.
This runtime model is used throughout the system to manage all of the ACPI events that occur during system operation.
Summary
ACPI can best be described as a framework of concepts and interfaces that are implemented to form a subsystem
within the host OS. The ACPI tables, handlers, interpreter, namespace, events, and interrupt model together form this
implementation of ACPI, creating the ACPI subsystem within the host OS. In this sense, ACPI is the interface between
the system hardware/firmware and the OS and OS applications for configuration and power management. This gives
various OS a standardized way to support power management and configuration via the ACPI namespace.
The ACPI namespace is the enumerable, hierarchical representation of all ACPI devices on the system and is used to
both find and load drivers for ACPI devices on the system. The namespace can be dynamic by evaluating objects and
sending interrupts in real time, all without the need for the OS to call native system firmware code. This enables device
manufacturers to code their own instructions and events into devices. It also reduces incompatibility and instability by
implementing a standardized power management interface.
CONTENTS
lxix
