Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
14.5 Doorbell Protocol
Note: This section does not apply to type 4 responder subspaces. Refer to the Platform Notification section for infor-
mation on Type 4 subspace usage.
The doorbell is used by OSPM to notify the platform that the shared memory region contains a valid command that is
ready to be processed. A doorbell consists of a hardware register that is accessed via I/O or memory mapped I/O, ab-
stracted in the doorbell field of the PCC subspace structure. OSPM rings the doorbell by performing a read/modify/write
cycle on the specified register, preserving and setting the bits specified in the preserve and write mask of the PCC sub-
space structure.
Fig. 14.1: Communication flow of the doorbell protocol
The Communication flow of the doorbell protocol (Fig. 14.1) illustrates the steps that the OSPM takes to send a message
to the platform over a PCC subspace. It also illustrates the steps the platform takes when it receives the message.
1. First the OSPM checks that there is no command pending completion on the subspace, which is done by check-
ing that the Command Complete bit is set. If Command Complete is set, the subspace is free for use and the
shared memory associated with the subspace is exclusively owned by the OSPM. Note: the location of the Com-
mand Complete bit differs between subspaces of types 0-2 and those of type 3. For type 0-2 subspaces, the
Command Complete bit is in the status register as described in Section 14.2.2. Type 3 subspaces still use a
single Command Complete bit, but allow the platform to specify the location and format of the register holding
it. Therefore, PCCT structures describing type 3 subspaces use masks and an address to describe how to check
the bit. OSPM combines the content of the Command Complete check register, through a bitwise AND of the
Command Complete check mask. A non-zero value indicates that the Command Complete bit is set. On type
0 channels, whether the platform sets Command Complete when the subspace is initialized is implementation
defined. On these subspaces, the OSPM does not have to check for Command Complete to be set before sending
the first command.
2. The OSPM places a command into the shared memory of the subspace, updating the flags, length, command
and payload fields (see Section 14.2 and Table 14.12). If the platform indicates support for platform interrupts
in the PCCT (see Section 14.1.1), then the OSPM can request that the platform generate an interrupt once it has
completed processing the command. This is requested by setting the Notify on completion bit in the flags (see
14.5. Doorbell Protocol
810
