Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
to queue for execution. The queries that the embedded controller driver exchanges with the embedded controller are
numbered from 0 through FF, yielding event codes 01 through FF. (A query response of 0 from the embedded controller
is reserved for “no outstanding events.”) The name of the control method to queue is always of the form _Qxx where
xx is the number of the query acknowledged by the embedded controller. An example declaration for a control method
that handles an embedded controller query is the following:
Method(_Q34) { // embedded controller event for thermal
Notify (\_SB.TZ0.THM1, 0x80)
}
When an SMBus alarm is handled by the SMBus driver, the SMBus driver uses a similar naming convention defined
by ACPI for the driver to determine the control method to queue for execution. When an alarm is received by the
SMBus host controller, it generally receives the SMBus address of the device issuing the alarm and one word of data.
On implementations that use SMBALERT# for notifications, only the device address will be received. The name of the
control method to queue is always of the form _Qxx where xx is the SMBus address of the device that issued the alarm.
The SMBus address is 7 bits long corresponding to hex values 0 through 7F, although some addresses are reserved and
will not be used. The control method will always be queued with one argument that contains the word of data received
with the alarm. An exception is the case of an SMBus using SMBALERT# for notifications, in this case the argument
will be 0. An example declaration for a control method that handles a SMBus alarm follows:
Method(_Q18, 1) { // Thermal sensor device at address 001 1000
// Arg0 contains notification value (if any)
// Arg0 = 0 if device supports only SMBALERT#
Notify (\_SB.TZ0.THM1, 0x80)
}
5.6.4.1.2 Dispatching to an ACPI-Aware Device Driver
Certain device support, such as an embedded controller, requires a dedicated GPE to service the device. Such GPEs
are dispatched to native OS code to be handled and not to the corresponding GPE-specific control method.
In the case of the embedded controller, an OS-native, ACPI-aware driver is given the GPE event for its device. This
driver services the embedded controller device and determines when events are to be reported by the embedded con-
troller by using the Query command. When an embedded controller event occurs, the ACPI-aware driver dispatches the
requests to other ACPI-aware drivers that have registered to handle the embedded controller queries or queues control
methods to handle each event. If there is no device driver to handle specific queries, OEM AML code can perform
OEM-specific functions that are customized to each event on the particular platform by including specific control meth-
ods in the namespace to handle these events. For an embedded controller event, OSPM will queue the control method
of the name _QXX, where XX is the hex format of the query code. Notice that each embedded controller device can
have query event control methods.
Similarly, for an SMBus driver, if no driver registers for SMBus alarms, the SMBus driver will queue control methods
to handle these. Methods must be placed under the SMBus device with the name _QXX where XX is the hex format
of the SMBus address of the device sending the alarm.
5.6. ACPI Event Programming Model
331
