Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
7.3.25 _RST (Device Reset)
This object executes a reset on the associated device or devices. If included in a device context, the reset must not
affect any other ACPI-described devices; if included in a power resource for reset (_PRR), the reset must affect all
ACPI-described devices that reference it.
When this object is described in a device context, it executes a function level reset that only affects the device it is
associated with; neither parent nor children should be affected by the execution of this reset. Executing this must only
result in this device resetting without the device appearing as if it has been removed from the bus altogether, to prevent
OSPM re-enumeration of devices on hot-pluggable buses (e.g. USB).
If a device reset is supported by the platform, but cannot meet the function level and bus requirement, the device should
instead implement a _PRR (_PRR (Power Resource for Reset)).
Devices can define both an _RST and a _PRR if supported by the hardware.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
None
7.3.26 _PRR (Power Resource for Reset)
This object evaluates to a single reference to a power resource. The power resource that this references must implement
a _RST method (_RST (Device Reset)).
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A single element Package containing a Reference to the power reset resource.
7.3.27 _DSC (Deepest State for Configuration)
This optional object evaluates to an integer that conveys to OSPM the deepest D-state the device can be in before
evaluating the _CRS, _PRS and _SRS configuration objects for it.
If _DSC is present and the current power state of the device is not deeper than the one represented by its return value,
the device’s _CRS, _PRS (if present) and _SRS (if present) configuration objects (see Device Configuration Objects)
can be safely evaluated without putting the device into D0.
Therefore, when present, the _DSC object allows the OSPM to optimize device power management by avoiding an
unnecessary change to device power state that would be otherwise made before evaluating configuration objects for the
device.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer representing the deepest D-state the device can be in during configuration. If OSPM has not
indicated that it supports _PR3 through the OSPM Platform-Wide Capabilities (see Platform-Wide OSPM
Capabilities), then the value “3” corresponds to D3. If it has indicated _PR3 support, the value “3” repre-
sents D3hot and the value “4” represents D3cold.
7.3. Device Power Management Objects
506
