Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
12.2.1 Embedded Controller Status, EC_SC (R)
This is a read-only register that indicates the current status of the embedded controller interface.
Table 12.1: Read Only Register Table
Bit7
Bit6
Bit5
Bit4
Bit3
Bit2
Bit1
Bit0
IGN
SMI_EVT
SCI_EVT
BURST
CMD
IGN
IBF
OBF
Where:
IGN
Ignored
SMI_EVT:
1 - Indicates SMI event is pending (requesting SMI query).
0 - No SMI events are pending.
SCI_EVT:
1 - Indicates SCI event is pending (requesting SCI query).
0 - No SCI events are pending.
BURST:
1 - Controller is in burst mode for polled command processing.
0 - Controller is in normal mode for interrupt-driven command processing.
CMD:
1 - Byte in data register is a command byte (only used by controller).
0 - Byte in data register is a data byte (only used by controller).
IBF:
1 - Input buffer is full (data ready for embedded controller).
0 - Input buffer is empty.
OBF:
1 - Output buffer is full (data ready for host).
0 - Output buffer is empty.
The Output Buffer Full (OBF) flag is set when the embedded controller has written a byte of data into the command or
data port but the host has not yet read it. After the host reads the status byte and sees the OBF flag set, the host reads
the data port to get the byte of data that the embedded controller has written. After the host reads the data byte, the
OBF flag is cleared automatically by hardware. This signals the embedded controller that the data has been read by the
host and the embedded controller is free to write more data to the host.
The Input Buffer Full (IBF) flag is set when the host has written a byte of data to the command or data port, but the
embedded controller has not yet read it. After the embedded controller reads the status byte and sees the IBF flag
set, the embedded controller reads the data port to get the byte of data that the host has written. After the embedded
controller reads the data byte, the IBF flag is automatically cleared by hardware. This is the signal to the host that the
data has been read by the embedded controller and that the host is free to write more data to the embedded controller.
The SCI event (SCI_EVT) flag is set when the embedded controller has detected an internal event that requires the
operating system’s attention. The embedded controller sets this bit in the status register, and generates an SCI to OSPM.
OSPM needs this bit to differentiate command-complete SCIs from notification SCIs. OSPM uses the query command
to request the cause of the SCI_EVT and take action. For more information, see Embedded Controller Command Set.
The SMI event (SMI_EVT) flag is set when the embedded controller has detected an internal event that requires the
system management interrupt handler’s attention. The embedded controller sets this bit in the status register before
generating an SMI.
The Burst (BURST) flag indicates that the embedded controller has received the burst enable command from the host,
has halted normal processing, and is waiting for a series of commands to be sent from the host. This allows OSPM
or system management handler to quickly read and write several bytes of data at a time without the overhead of SCIs
between the commands.
12.2. Embedded Controller Register Descriptions
764
