Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
8.5.1 Logical Processor Idling
In order to reduce the platform’s power consumption, the platform may direct OSPM to remove a logical processor from
the operating system scheduler’s list of processors where non-processor affinitized work is dispatched. This capability
is known as Logical Processor Idling and provides a means to reduce platform power consumption without undergoing
processor ejection / insertion processing overhead. Interrupts directed to a logical processor and processor affinitized
workloads will impede the effectiveness of logical processor idling in reducing power consumption as OSPM is not
expected to re-target this work when a logical processor is idled.
8.5.1.1 _PUR (Processor Utilization Request)
The _PUR object is an optional object that may be declared under the Processor Aggregator Device and provides a
means for the platform to indicate to OSPM the number of logical processors to be idled. OSPM evaluates the _PUR
object as a result of the processing of a Notify event on the Processor Aggregator device object of type 0x80.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A Package as described below.
Return Value Information
Package
{
RevisionID // Integer: Current value is 1
NumProcessors // Integer
}
The NumProcessors package element conveys the number of logical processors that the platform wants OSPM to idle.
This number is an absolute value. OSPM increments or decrements the number of logical processors placed in the idle
state to equal the NumProcessors value as possible. A NumProcessors value of zero causes OSPM to place all logical
processor in the active state as possible.
OSPM uses internal logical processor to physical core and package topology knowledge to idle logical processors
successively in an order that maximizes power reduction benefit from idling requests. For example, all SMT threads
constituting logical processors on a single processing core should be idled to allow the core to enter a low power state
before idling SMT threads constituting logical processors on another core.
8.5.2 OSPM _OST Evaluation
When processing of the _PUR object evaluation completes, OSPM evaluates the _OST object, if present under the
Processor Aggregator device, to convey _PUR evaluation status to the platform. _OST arguments specific to _PUR
evaluation are described below.
Arguments: (3)
Arg0 - Source Event (Integer) : 0x80
Arg1 - Status Code (Integer) : see below
Arg2 - Idled Procs (Buffer) : see below
Return Value:
8.5. Processor Aggregator Device
589
