Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
9.20 Firmware Inventory Device
The Firmware Inventory device is used to convey version information for firmware currently running on various devices
within the system. These may include system boot firmware (e.g. UEFI), as well as firmware on any other processors
or microcontrollers within the system (e.g. ACPI Embedded Controller, Baseboard Management Controller). This
Device object is located directly within the _SB scope. Note that one or more of these devices may support a runtime
firmware update that does not require a full system reboot- therefore this Device reports the current set of firmware, as
well as providing runtime notifications to OSPM in the event of a firmware update so that the list may be reacquired.
The ACPI Hardware ID of the Firmware Inventory device is ACPI0019.
The firmware inventory list is returned by the _DSM Object, described in Section 9.20.1
When a firmware update occurs, AML code issues a Notify(<Firmware Device>, 0x80). The OSPM handler for the no-
tification should re-evaluate the _DSM upon receipt of such a notification and update any OSPM internal data structures
with the new information as needed.
9.20.1 _DSM (Get Firmware Inventory)
The Firmware Inventory Device must contain a _DSM method that returns an inventory of platform firmware binaries.
This may include boot firmware that was executed during the current boot cycle and may also include runtime firmware
that is currently in use. _DSM can return one of three inventory sets:
1. Firmware binaries that were used to boot the system, including any runtime binaries, for the most recent system
boot cycle.
2. Firmware binaries that are currently in use. This includes binaries used for the most recent system boot cycle, as
well as any runtime binaries that have been updated and put into use (applied) since the most recent system boot
cycle.
3. Firmware binaries that will be in effect after the next system boot cycle.
If no firmware update event has occurred, all 3 sets will be the same. If a firmware entity has been updated, set 2 and/or
set 3 will differ from set 1. It is recommended that the updating of a runtime binary that affects set 2 also apply to set
3 (the new runtime binary will be persistent and used for the next boot), however it is possible that a different version
of that runtime binary may be used for the next system boot cycle. The _DSM must support all three values for Arg3.
The layout of the inventory, returned by the _DSM method is identified by a “type” parameter.
The supported layouts, as a function of the type are:
• type == 0 : subset of the fields in SMBIOS type 45, supported since _DSM revision 1.
All other “type” values are reserved.
Arguments: Arg3: Function ID: 0- Get number of supported functions
1- Requests the inventory of firmware images used for the most recent boot cycle.
2- Requests the inventory of firmware images currently in use. This may differ from the boot set if any elements were
updated and applied during runtime.
3- Requests the inventory of firmware images for the next boot cycle. This may differ from either of the previous sets
if the application of an image that has been updated will not take effect until the next boot.
All other values: Reserved.
9.20. Firmware Inventory Device
679
