Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
ò Note
All accesses to the Performance Limited Register must be made using interlocked operations, by both accessing
entities.
The performance limited register should only be used to report short term, unpredictable events (e.g., PROCHOT being
asserted). If the platform is capable of identifying longer term, predictable events that limit processor performance, it
should use the guaranteed performance register to notify OSPM of this limitation. Changes to guaranteed performance
should not be more frequent than once per second. If the platform is not able to guarantee a given performance level for
a sustained period of time (greater than one second), it should guarantee a lower performance level and opportunistically
enter the higher performance level as requested by OSPM and allowed by current operating conditions.
8.4.6.1.4 CPPC Enable Register
Optional Attribute:
Read/Write
Size:
>=1 bit(s)
If supported by the platform, OSPM writes a one to this register to enable CPPC on this processor.
If not implemented, OSPM assumes the platform always has CPPC enabled.
8.4.6.1.5 Autonomous Selection Enable Register
Optional Register or DWORD Attribute:
Read/Write
Size:
>=1 bit(s)
If supported by the platform, OSPM writes a one to this register to enable Autonomous Performance Level Selection
on this processor. CPPC must be enabled via the CPPC Enable Register to enable Autonomous Performance Level
Selection. Platforms that exclusively support Autonomous Selection must populate this field as an Integer with a value
of 1.
When Autonomous Selection is enabled, the platform is responsible for selecting performance states. OSPM is not
required to assess processor workload performance demand and convey a corresponding performance delivery request
to the platform via the Desired Performance Register.
8.4.6.1.6 Autonomous Activity Window Register
Optional Attribute:
Read/Write
Size:
10 bit(s)
Units:
Bits 06:00 - Significand,
Bits 09:07 - Exponent, Base_Time_Unit = 1E-6 seconds (1 microsecond)
If supported by the platform, OSPM may write a time value (10^3-bit exp * 7-bit mantissa in 1μsec units: 1us to 1270
sec) to this field to indicate a moving utilization sensitivity window to the platform’s autonomous selection policy.
Combined with the Energy Performance Preference Register value, the Activity Window influences the rate of perfor-
mance increase / decrease of the platform’s autonomous selection policy. OSPM writes a zero value to this register to
enable the platform to determine an appropriate Activity Window depending on the workload.
Writes to this register only have meaning when Autonomous Selection is enabled.
8.4. Declaring Processors
584
