Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
3.3.2 Power Management Standards
To manage power of all the devices in the system, the OS needs standard methods for sending commands to a device.
These standards define the operations used to manage power of devices on a particular I/O interconnect and the power
states that devices can be put into. Defining these standards for each I/O interconnect creates a baseline level of power
management support the OS can utilize. Independent Hardware Vendors (IHVs) do not have to spend extra time writing
software to manage power of their hardware, because simply adhering to the standard gains them direct OS support. For
OS vendors, the I/O interconnect standards allow the power management code to be centralized in the driver for each
I/O interconnect. Finally, I/O interconnect-driven power management allows the OS to track the states of all devices
on a given I/O interconnect. When all the devices are in a given state (or example, D3 - off), the OS can put the entire
I/O interconnect into the power supply mode appropriate for that state (for example, D3 - off).
I/O interconnect-level power management specifications are written for a number of buses including:
• PCI
• PCI Express
• CardBus
• USB
• IEEE 1394
3.3.3 Device Power States
To unify nomenclature and provide consistent behavior across devices, standard definitions are used for the power states
of devices. Generally, these states are defined in terms of the following criteria:
• Power consumption–How much power the device uses.
• Device context–How much of the context of the device is retained by the hardware.
• Device driver–What the device driver must do to restore the device to fully on.
• Restore latency–How long it takes to restore the device to fully on.
More specifically, power management specifications for each class of device (for example, modem, network adapter,
hard disk, and so on) more precisely define the power states and power policy for the class. See Device Power States
for a detailed description of the general device power states (D0-D3).
3.3.4 Device Power State Definitions
The device power state definitions are device-independent, but classes of devices on a bus must support some consistent
set of power-related characteristics. For example, when the bus-specific mechanism to set the device power state to a
given level is invoked, the actions a device might take and the specific sorts of behaviors the OS can assume while
the device is in that state will vary from device type to device type. For a fully integrated device power management
system, these class-specific power characteristics must also be standardized:
Device Power State Characteristics
Each class of device has a standard definition of target power consumption levels, state-change latencies, and
context loss.
Minimum Device Power Capabilities
Each class of device has a minimum standard set of power capabilities.
Device Functional Characteristics
Each class of device has a standard definition of what subset of device functionality or features is available in
3.3. Device Power Management
34
