Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.44: GIC ITS Flags
GIC ITS Flags
Bit
Length
Bit Off-
set
Description
GIC ITS Non-coherent
1
0
This field specifies if the associated GIC ITS is cache
coherent with the CPU. The values for this flag are:
0x0: This ITS is fully coherent. OSPM does not need to
perform any Cache Maintenance on the associated tables in
memory if the appropriate cacheability and shareability
attributes have been configured in the ITS.
0x1: This ITS is not coherent. OSPM needs to perform cache
maintenance on the associated tables in memory.
Reserved
7
1
Must be zero.
5.2.12.19 Multiprocessor Wakeup Structure
The platform firmware publishes a multiprocessor wakeup structure to let the bootstrap processor wake up application
processors with a mailbox. The mailbox is memory that the firmware reserves so that each processor can have the OS
send a message to them.
During system boot, the firmware puts the application processors in a state to check the mailbox. The shared mailbox
is a 4K-aligned 4K-size memory block allocated by the firmware in ACPI NVS memory. The firmware is not allowed
to modify the mailbox location when the firmware transfer the control to an OS loader. The mailbox is broken down
into two 2KB sections: an OS section and a firmware section.
The OS section can only be written by OS and read by the firmware, except the command field. The application
processor need clear the command to Noop(0) as the acknowledgement that the command is received. The firmware
must cache the content in the mailbox which might be used later before clear the command such as WakeupVector.
Only after the command is changed to Noop(0), the OS can send the next command. The firmware section must be
considered read-only to the OS and is only to be written to by the firmware. All data communication between the OS
and FW must be in little endian format.
The OS section contains command, flags, APIC ID, and a wakeup address. After the OS detects the processor number
from the MADT table, the OS may prepare the wakeup routine, fill the wakeup address field in the mailbox, indicate
which processor need to be wakeup in the APID ID field, and send wakeup command. Once an application processor
detects the wakeup command and its own APIC ID, the application processor will jump to the OS-provided wakeup
address.
There are two places where a Wakeup vector address can be located: 1) Mailbox ReservedForOs Region, or 2) below
1MB memory if the system has below 1MB memory reported in memory map. The wakeup vector address pointing
to the ReservedForOs area is preferred. The application processor will ignore the command if the APIC ID does not
match its own.
For each application processor, the mailbox can be used only once for the wakeup command, unless the MailBoxVersion
field value is greater than 0 and the ResetVector field contains a nonzero value.
After the application process takes the action according to the command, this mailbox will no longer be checked by
this application processor until the mailbox is reset for it as described below. Other processors can continue using the
mailbox for the next command.
In case the mailbox needs to be used once again, for example in order to start a new version of the OS without carry-
ing out a full system reset, the ResetVector field value can be used for making the given application processor enter
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
150
