Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
device). _SWS objects may exist in any or all of these locations as necessary for the platform to determine the source
event that caused the system to transition to the S0 state.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the Source Event as described below
The value of the Source Event is dependent on the location of the _SWS object:
1. If _SWS is evaluated under the \_GPE scope, Source Event is the index of the GPE that caused the system to
transition to S0. StepNumList-1 If _SWS is evaluated under the \_GPE scope, Source Event is the index of the
GPE that caused the system to transition to S0.
2. If _SWS is evaluated within the scope of a GPE block device, Source Event is the index of the GPE that caused
the system to transition to S0. In this case, the index is relative to the GPE block device and is not unique
system-wide.
3. If _SWS is evaluated under the \_SB scope, Source Event is the index in the PM1 status register that caused the
system to transition to S0.
In all cases above, if the cause of the S0 transition cannot be determined, _SWS returns Ones (-1).
To enable OSPM to determine the source of the S0 state transition via the _SWS object,the hardware or firmware should
detect and save the event that caused the transition so that it can be returned during _SWS object evaluation. The single
wake source for the system may be latched in hardware during the transition so that no false wake events can be returned
by _SWS. An implementation that does not use hardware to latch a single wake source for the system and instead uses
firmware to save the wake source must do so as quickly as possible after the wakeup event occurs, so that _SWS does
not return values that correspond to events that occurred after the sleep-to-wake transition. Such an implementation
must also take care to ensure that events that occur subsequent to the wakeup source being saved do not overwrite the
original wakeup source.
The source event data returned by _SWS must be determined for each transition into the S0 state. The value returned
by _SWS must also be persistent during the system’s residency in the S0 state as OSPM may evaluate _SWS multiple
times. In this case, the platform must return the same source event information for each invocation.
After evaluating an _SWS object within the \_GPE scope or within the scope of a GPE block device, OSPM will invoke
the _Wxx control method corresponding to the GPE index returned by _SWS if it exists. This allows the platform to
further determine source event if the GPE is shared among multiple devices. See Determining the System Wake Source
Using _Wxx Control Methods for details.
7.4.4 \_TTS (Transition To State)
The _TTS control method is executed by the OSPM at the beginning of the sleep transition process for S1, S2, S3, S4,
and orderly S5 shutdown. OSPM will invoke _TTS before it has notified any native mode device drivers of the sleep
state transition. The sleeping state value (For example, 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 for the S5 soft-off state) is passed to the _TTS
control method.
The _TTS control method is also executed by the OSPM at the end of any sleep transition process when the system
transitions to S0 from S1, S2, S3, or S4. OSPM will invoke _TTS after it has notified any native mode device drivers
of the end of the sleep state transition. The working state value (0) is passed to the _TTS control method.
Arguments:
Arg0 - An Integer containing the value of the sleeping state (1 for S1, 2 for S2, etc.)
Return Value
None
7.4. OEM-Supplied System-Level Control Methods
513
