Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
A.7.3 Input Device Wake Events
It is recommended, but not required, that input devices implement and support bus-specific wake mechanisms if these
are defined for their bus type. This is recommended because a user typically uses an input device of some kind to wake
the system when it is in a power management state (for example, when the system is sleeping).
The actual input data (particular button or key pressed) that’s associated with a wake event should never be discarded
by the device itself, but should always be passed along to the policy owner or other software for further interpretation.
This software implements a policy for how this input data should be interpreted, and decides what should be passed
along to higher-level software, and so on.
It is recommended that the device button(s) or key(s) used for power management purposes are clearly labeled with
text and/or icons. This is recommended for keyboards and other input devices on which all buttons or keys are typically
labeled with text and/or icons that identify their usage.
For example, a keyboard could include a special-purpose power management button (for example, “Power”) that, when
pressed during a system sleeping state, generates a wake event. Alternatively, the button(s) on mice and other pointing
devices could be used to trigger a wake event.
Examples of more advanced wake events include keyboard wake signaling when any key is pressed, mouse wake
signaling on detection of X/Y motion, joystick wake signaling on X/Y motion, and so on. However, in order to avoid
accidental or unintentional wake of the system, and to give the user some control over which input events will result in
a system wake, it’s suggested that more advanced types of wake events are implemented as features that can be turned
on or off by the user (for example, as part of the OSPM user interface).
A.7.4 Input Device Minimum Power Capabilities
An input device conforming to this specification must support the D0 and D3 states. Support for the D1 state is optional.
A.8 Modem Device Class
• The requirements expressed in this section apply to modems and similar devices, such as USB controlled ISDN
Terminal Adapters (“digital modems”) and computer-connected telephone devices (“CT phones”). This specifi-
cation will refer to these devices as “modems; the same considerations apply to digital modems and CT phones
unless explicitly stated otherwise.
• The scope of this section is further restricted to modems that support power management using methods de-
fined by the relevant PC-modem connection bus. These include PCI, USB, PCCARD (PCMCIA), CardBus, and
modems on the system motherboard described by ACPI system firmware control methods. The scope does not
include bus-specific means for devices to alert the host PC (for example, how to deliver a “ringing”’ message),
nor does it address how those alerting operations are controlled.
A.8.1 Technology Overview
Modems are traditionally serial devices, but today modems may be attached to a PC by many different means. Further,
many new modems expose a software serial interface, where the modem controller function is implemented in software.
This specification addresses three different connection types:
• Traditional connections without power-managed connections (for example, COM, LPT, ISA)
• Power managed connections (for example, PCCARD, CardBus, PCI, USB)
• Motherboard modems
For some of the above modem connection types mentioned, there are three different modem architectures possible:
A.8. Modem Device Class
1104
