Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5.5.2.4.8.5 Using a PCC OperationRegion
The PCC Operation Region handler begins transmission of the message on the channel when it detects a write to the
CMD field. The caller must therefore update all other fields relevant to the operation region first, and then in the final
step, write the command itself. As explained in Declaring message fields within a PCC OperationRegion, the fields to
be updated are specific to the subspace type.
For the Generic Communication subspace type (Types 0, 1 and 2), the order of Operation Region writes would be as
follows:
1. Write the command payload into the DATA field. StepNumList-1 Write the command payload into the DATA
field.
2. Write the command into the CMD field.
For the Extended Communication subspace type (Type 3), the order of Operation Region writes would be as follows:
1. Write the command payload, length and flags into the CMD, LEN and FLGS fields, respectively, in any order of
preference. StepNumList-1 Write the command payload, length and flags into the CMD, LEN and FLGS fields,
respectively, in any order of preference.
2. Write the command into the CMD field.
In the above steps, the fields are as described in Section 5.5.2.4.8.4. When the platform completes processing the
command, it uses the same subspace Shared Memory Region to return the response data. The caller can thus read the
Operation Region to retrieve the response data.
If channel errors are encountered during transmission of the command or its response, the channel reports an error
status in the Channel Status register. The caller must therefore first check the Channel Status register before processing
the return data. For the Generic PCC Communication Subspaces, the Channel Status register is located in the Shared
Memory Region itself, as described in Generic Communications Channel Status Field. The caller must thus check the
STAT field in the Operation Region for the purpose. For the Extended PCC Communication Subspaces, the Channel
Status register is located anywhere in system memory or IO, and pointed to by the Error Status register field within the
Type 3 PCC Subspace structure, as described in Extended PCC subspaces (types 3 and 4).
5.5.2.4.8.6 Using the _REG Method for PCC Operation Regions
It is possible for the OS to include PCC operation region handlers that only comprehend and support a subset of the
possible subspaces defined in this specification. The OS can provide supplementary information in the _REG method
in order to indicate which exact subspaces(s) are supported. To accomplish this, the Arg0 parameter passed to the
_REG method must include both the Address Space ID (PCC) and a qualifying Address Space sub-type in Byte 1, as
follows:
Arg0, Byte 0 = PCC = 0x0A Arg0, Byte 1 = subspace type as defined in Section 14.1.2.
The OS may now indicate support for handling PCC operation region subspace Type 3 by invoking the _REG method
with Arg0=0x030A and Arg1 = 0x01.
5.5. Control Methods and the ACPI Source Language (ASL)
324
