Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
2.3.1 Device Performance States
Device performance states (Px states) are power consumption and capability states within the active (D0) device power
state. Performance states allow OSPM to make tradeoffs between performance and energy conservation. Device perfor-
mance states have the greatest impact when the implementation is such that the states invoke different device efficiency
levels as opposed to a linear scaling of performance and energy consumption. Since performance state transitions occur
in the active device states, care must be taken to ensure that performance state transitions do not adversely impact the
system.
Device performance states, when necessary, are defined on a per device class basis (See Appendix A: Device Class
Specifications for more information).
2.4 Sleeping and Soft-off State Definitions
S1-S4 are types of sleeping states within the global system state, G1, while S5 is a soft-off state associated with the G2
system state. The Sx states are briefly defined below.
For a detailed definition of the system behavior within each Sx state, see \_Sx (System States). For a detailed definition
of the transitions between each of the Sx states, see Sleeping States.
S1 Sleeping State
The S1 sleeping state is a low wake latency sleeping state. In this state, no system context is lost (CPU or chip
set) and hardware maintains all system context.
S2 Sleeping State
The S2 sleeping state is a low wake latency sleeping state. This state is similar to the S1 sleeping state except that
the CPU and system cache context is lost (the OS is responsible for maintaining the caches and CPU context).
Control starts from the processor’s reset vector after the wake event.
S3 Sleeping State
The S3 sleeping state is a low wake latency sleeping state where all system context is lost except system memory.
CPU, cache, and chip set context are lost in this state. Hardware maintains memory context and restores some
CPU and L2 configuration context. Control starts from the processor’s reset vector after the wake event.
S4 Sleeping State
The S4 sleeping state is the lowest power, longest wake latency sleeping state supported by ACPI. In order to
reduce power to a minimum, it is assumed that the hardware platform has powered off all devices. Platform
context is maintained.
S5 Soft Off State
The S5 state is similar to the S4 state except that the OS does not save any context. The system is in the “soft”
off state and requires a complete boot when it wakes. Software uses a different state value to distinguish between
the S5 state and the S4 state to allow for initial boot operations within the platform boot firmware to distinguish
whether the boot is going to wake from a saved memory image.
2.5 Processor Power State Definitions
Processor power states (Cx states) are processor power consumption and thermal management states within the global
working state, G0. The Cx states possess specific entry and exit semantics and are briefly defined below. For a more
detailed definition of each Cx state, see Processor Power States.
C0 Processor Power State
While the processor is in this state, it executes instructions.
2.4. Sleeping and Soft-off State Definitions
27
