Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 10.5 – continued from previous page
Field
Format
Description
Battery
Capacity
Granularity 2
Integer (DWORD)
Battery capacity granularity between warning and Full in [mAh] or
[mWh]. That is, this is the smallest increment in capacity that the
battery is capable of measuring. This may be a different value than
Battery Capacity Granularity 1 to accommodate systems where the
granularity accuracy may change depending on the battery level. See
note below for more details.
Model Number
String (ASCIIZ)
OEM-specific Control Method Battery model number
Serial Number
String (ASCIIZ)
OEM-specific Control Method Battery serial number
Battery Type
String (ASCIIZ)
The OEM-specific Control Method Battery type
OEM Information
String (ASCIIZ)
OEM-specific information for the battery that the UI uses to display
the OEM information about the Battery. If the OEM does not support
this information, this field should contain a NULL string.
Battery
Swapping
Capability
Integer (DWORD)
0x00000000 Non swappable battery (for example, sealed internal
battery not accessible to user)
0x00000001 Cold swappable battery, i.e. batteries that require
system to be shut down in order to replace the battery while on DC
power (for example, phone and laptop batteries accessible to user)
0x00000010 Hot swappable battery, i.e. batteries that do not
require the system to be shut down in order to replace/remove the
battery while on DC power (for example, accessory batteries, cd
tray batteries, external batteries, dock batteries, keyboard batteries)
ò Note
A secondary-type battery should report the corresponding capacity (except for Unknown).
On a multiple-battery system, all batteries in the system should return the same granularity.
Operating systems prefer these control methods to report data in terms of power (watts).
On a multiple-battery system, all batteries in the system must use the same power unit.
The definition of battery capacity granularity has been clarified. For OSPM to determine if systems support the
clarified definition of battery capacity granularity, OSPM may evaluate an _OSC method at the battery scope to
indicate support for this capability, and for the platform to indicate if it supports these extended capabilities.
10.2.2.4 _BMA (Battery Measurement Averaging Interval)
This object is used to set the averaging interval of the battery capacity measurement, in milliseconds. The Battery
Measurement Averaging Interval is the length of time within which the battery averages the capacity measurements
specified in _BST, such as remaining capacity and present rate.
The OSPM may read the Max Average Interval and Min Average Interval with _BIX during boot time, and set a specific
average interval within the range with _BMA.
Arguments:(1)
Arg0 - AveragingInterval (Integer(DWORD)) the averaging interval of battery capacity measurement:
0x00000001 - 0xFFFFFFFF (in units of millisecond)
10.2. Control Method Batteries
696
