Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
is always set), when transitioning from either the mechanical off (G3) or soft-off state to the G0 working state this register
is cleared prior to entering the G0 working state.
This register contains optional features enabled or disabled within the FADT. If the FADT indicates that the feature is
not supported as a fixed hardware feature, then software treats these bits as ignored.
Table 4.11: PM1 Status Registers Fixed Hardware Feature Status Bits
Bit
Name
Description
0
TMR_STS
This is the timer carry status bit. This bit gets set any time the most sig-
nificant bit of a 24/32-bit counter changes from clear to set or set to clear.
While TMR_EN and TMR_STS are set, an interrupt event is raised.
1-3
Reserved
Reserved
4
BM_STS
This is the bus master status bit. This bit is set any time a system bus mas-
ter requests the system bus, and can only be cleared by writing a “1” to this
bit position. Notice that this bit reflects bus master activity, not CPU ac-
tivity (this bit monitors any bus master that can cause an incoherent cache
for a processor in the C3 state when the bus master performs a memory
transaction).
5
GBL_STS
This bit is set when an SCI is generated due to the platform runtime
firmware wanting the attention of the SCI handler.
Platform runtime
firmware will have a control bit (somewhere within its address space) that
will raise an SCI and set this bit. This bit is set in response to the platform
runtime firmware releasing control of the Global Lock and having seen the
pending bit set.
6-7
Reserved
Reserved. These bits always return a value of zero.
8
PWRBTN_STS
This optional bit is set when the Power Button is pressed. In the system
working state, while PWRBTN_EN and PWRBTN_STS are both set, an
interrupt event is raised. In the sleep or soft-off state, a wake event is gen-
erated when the power button is pressed (regardless of the PWRBTN_EN
bit setting). This bit is only set by hardware and can only be reset by soft-
ware writing a “1” to this bit position. ACPI defines an optional mech-
anism for unconditional transitioning a system that has stopped working
from the G0 working state into the G2 soft-off state called the power but-
ton override. If the Power Button is held active for more than four sec-
onds, this bit is cleared by hardware and the system transitions into the
G2/S5 Soft Off state (unconditionally). Support for the power button is in-
dicated by the PWR_BUTTON flag in the FADT being reset (zero). If the
PWR_BUTTON flag is set or a power button device object is present in
the ACPI Namespace, then this bit field is ignored by OSPM. If the power
button was the cause of the wake (from an S1-S4 state), then this bit is set
prior to returning control to OSPM.
9
SLPBTN_STS
This optional bit is set when the sleep button is pressed. In the system
working state, while SLPBTN_EN and SLPBTN_STS are both set, an in-
terrupt event is raised. In the sleep or soft-off states a wake event is gener-
ated when the sleeping button is pressed and the SLPBTN_EN bit is set.
This bit is only set by hardware and can only be reset by software writing
a “1” to this bit position. Support for the sleep button is indicated by the
SLP_BUTTON flag in the FADT being reset (zero). If the SLP_BUTTON
flag is set or a sleep button device object is present in the ACPI Namespace,
then this bit field is ignored by OSPM. If the sleep button was the cause of
the wake (from an S1-S4 state), then this bit is set prior to returning control
to OSPM.
continues on next page
4.8. ACPI Register Model
79
