Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Upon waking the platform boot firmware restores memory context and jumps to the waking vector (similar to wake
from an S3 state). Coming out of the S4BIOS state, the platform boot firmware must only configure boot devices (so
it can read the disk partition where it saved system context). When OSPM re-enumerates buses coming out of the
S4BIOS state, it will discover any devices that have come and gone, and configure devices as they are turned on.
16.1.5 S5 Soft Off State
OSPM places the platform in the S5 soft off state to achieve a logical off. Notice that the S5 state is not a sleeping state
(it is a G2 state) and no context is saved by OSPM or hardware but power may still be applied to parts of the platform
in this state, and, as such, it is not safe to disassemble. Also notice that from a hardware perspective, the S4 and S5
states are nearly identical. When initiated, the hardware will sequence the system to a state similar to the off state. The
hardware has no responsibility for maintaining any system context (memory or I/O); however, it does allow a transition
to the S0 state due to a power button press or a Remote Start. Upon start-up, the platform boot firmware performs a
normal power-on reset, loads the boot sector, and then executes (but not the waking vector, as all ACPI table context is
lost when entering the S5 soft off state).
The _TTS control method allows the platform runtime firmware a mechanism for performing some housekeeping, such
as storing the targeted sleep state in a “global” variable that is accessible by other control methods (such as _PS3 and
_DSW).
16.1.6 Transitioning from the Working to the Sleeping State
On a transition of the system from the working to the sleeping state, the following occurs:
1. OSPM decides (through a policy scheme) to place the system into the sleeping state.
2. OSPM invokes the _TTS method to indicate the deepest possible system state the system will transition to (1, 2,
3, or 4 representing S1, S2, S3, and S4).
3. OSPM examines all devices enabled to wake the system and determines the deepest possible sleeping state the
system can enter to support the enabled wake functions. The _PRW named object under each device is examined,
as well as the power resource object it points to.
4. OSPM places all device drivers into their respective Dx state. If the device is enabled for wake, it enters the Dx
state associated with the wake capability. If the device is not enabled to wake the system, it enters the D3 state.
5. OSPM executes the _PTS control method, passing an argument that indicates the desired sleeping state (1, 2, 3,
or 4 representing S1, S2, S3, and S4).
6. OSPM saves any other processor’s context (other than the local processor) to memory.
7. OSPM writes the waking vector into the FACS table in memory.
ò Note
Compatibility — The _GTS method is deprecated in ACPI 5.0A. For earlier versions, OSPM executes the
_GTS control method, passing an argument that indicates the sleeping state to be entered (1, 2, 3, or 4
representing S1, S2, S3, and S4).
8. If not a HW-reduced ACPI platform, OSPM clears the WAK_STS in the PM1a_STS and PM1b_STS registers.
On HW-reduced ACPI platforms, OSPM clears the WAK_STS bit in the Sleep Status Register.
9. OSPM saves the local processor’s context to memory.
10. OSPM flushes caches (only if entering S1, S2 or S3).
16.1. Sleeping States
830
