Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
(continued from previous page)
_GTF - Control method to get task file
PRTn - Port n device
_ADR - Indicates physical port and port multiplier topology
_SDD - Identify information for drive attached to this port
_GTF - Control method to get task file
9.7.3.3 SATA controller-specific control methods
In order to ensure proper interaction between OSPM, the firmware, and devices attached to the SATA controller, it is
a requirement that OSPM execute the _SDD and _GTF control methods when certain events occur. OSPM’s response
to events must be as follows:
COMRESET, Initial OS load, device insertion, HBA D3 to D0 transition, asynchronous loss of signal:
1. OSPM sends IDENTIFY DEVICE or IDENTIFY PACKET DEVICE command to the attached device.
2. OS executes _SDD. _SDD control method requires 1 argument that consists of the data block received from an
attached device as a result of a host issued IDENTIFY DEVICE or IDENTIFY PACKET DEVICE command.
3. After the _SDD method completes, the OS executes the _GTF method. Using the task file information provided
by _GTF, the OS then sends the _GTF taskfiles to the attached device.
Device removal and HBA D0 to D3 transition:
1. No OSPM action required.
9.7.3.3.1 _SDD (Set Device Data)
This optional object is a control method that conveys to the platform the type of device connected to the port. The
_SDD object may exist under a SATA port device object. The platform typically uses the information conveyed by the
_SDD object to construct the values returned by the _GTF object.
OSPM conveys to the platform the ATA drive ID block, which is the raw data returned by the Identify (Packet) Device,
ATA command (command code “0ech.”). Please see the ATA/ATAPI-6 specification for more details.
Arguments:(1)
Arg0 - A Buffer containing an ATA drive identify block, contents described by the ATA specification
Return Value:
None
9.8 Floppy Controller Device Objects
9.8.1 _FDE (Floppy Disk Enumerate)
Enumerating devices attached to a floppy disk controller is a time-consuming function. In order to speed up the process
of floppy enumeration, ACPI defines an optional enumeration object that is defined directly under the device object for
the floppy disk controller. It returns a buffer of five 32-bit values. The first four values are Boolean values indicating
the presence or absence of the four floppy drives that are potentially attached to the controller. A non-zero value
indicates that the floppy device is present. The fifth value returned indicates the presence or absence of a tape controller.
Definitions of the tape presence value can be found in Tape Presence.
Arguments:
9.8. Floppy Controller Device Objects
609
