Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
B.7 Notifications Specific to Output Devices
Output devices may need to know about external, asynchronous events. In order, each of these events corresponds to
accommodate that, pressing a key or button on the following machine. Using these notifications is not appropriate if
no physical device exists that is associated with them. OSPM may ignore any of these notifications if, for example the
current user does not have permission to change the state of the output device. These notifications are only valid for
Output Devices.
Table B-8: Notification Values for Output Devices
Value
Description
0x85
Cycle Brightness. Used to notify OSPM that the output device brightness should be increased by
one level. Used to notify OSPM that the user pressed a button or key that is associated with cycling
brightness. A useful response by OSPM would be to increase output device brightness by one or
more levels. (Levels are defined in _BCL.) If the brightness level is currently at the maximum
value, it should be set to the minimum level.
0x86
Increase Brightness. Used to notify OSPM that the output device brightness should be increased
by one or more levels as defined by the _BCL object. Used to notify OSPM that the user pressed
a button or key that is associated with increasing brightness. If the brightness level is currently at
the maximum value, OSPM may should ignore the notification.
0x87
Decrease Brightness. Used to notify OSPM that the output device brightness should be decreased
by one or more levels as defined by the _BCL object. Used to notify OSPM that the user pressed
a button or key that is associated with decreasing device brightness. If the brightness level is
currently at the minimum value, OSPM may should ignore the notification.
0x88
Zero Brightness. Used to notify OSPM that the output device brightness should be zeroed, effec-
tively turning off any lighting that is associated with the device. Used to notify OSPM that the
user pressed a button or key associated with zeroing device brightness. This is not to be confused
with putting the device in a D3 state. While the brightness may be decreased to zero, the device
may still be displaying, using only ambient light.
0x89
Display Device Off. Used to notify OSPM that the device should be put in an off state, one that is
not active or visible to the user, usually D3, but possibly D1 or D2. Used to notify OSPM that the
user pressed a low power button or key associated with putting the device in an off state. There is
no need for a corresponding “device on” notification, for two reasons. First, OSPM may choose to
toggle device state when this event is pressed multiple times. Second, OSPM may (and probably
will) choose to turn the monitor on whenever the user types on the keyboard, moves the mouse, or
otherwise indicates that he or she is attempting to interact with the machine.
B.8 Notes on State Changes
It is possible to have any number of simultaneous active output devices. It is possible to have 0, 1, 2 ... and so on active
output devices. For example, it is possible for both the LCD device and the CRT device to be active simultaneously.
It is also possible for all display outputs devices to be inactive (this could happen in a system where multiple graphics
cards are present).
The state of the output device is separate from the power state of the device. The “active” state represents whether the
image being generated by the graphics adapter would be sent to this particular output device. A device can be powered
off or in a low-power mode but still be the active output device. A device can also be in an off state but still be powered
on.
Example of the display-switching mechanism:
The laptop has three output devices on the VGA adapter. At this moment in time, the panel and the TV are both active,
B.7. Notifications Specific to Output Devices
1127
