Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 9.17 – continued from previous page
Function Index
Description
4
Clear Uncorrectable Error (see Section 9.19.7.7)
5
Translate SPA
6
Reserved
7
ARS Error Inject
8
ARS Error Inject Clear
9
ARS Error Inject Status Query
0xA
Query ARS Error Inject Capabilities
0xB - 0xFFFF
Reserved
Arg3 - a package containing parameters for the function specified by the UUID, Revision ID, and Function Index. The
layout of the package for each command along with the corresponding output is illustrated in the following tables. The
input and output package are a list of bytes (Buffer).
9.19.7.2 Address Range Scrubbing (ARS) Overview
ARS allows the platform to communicate memory errors to system software. This capability allows system software
to prevent accesses to addresses with uncorrectable errors in memory.
The ARS functions are system scope and are not specific to a single NVDIMM, i.e., they manage all NVDIMMs present
in the system.
The Query ARS Capabilities function indicates if ARS is supported for an address range and to discover system-wide
attributes, such as the maximum amount of data that can be returned from a Query ARS Status function and whether
the platform provides an asynchronous ACPI notification that a new uncorrectable error has been discovered.
Only one scrub can be in progress system wide at any given time. OSPM should first issue a Query ARS Status
function and ensure no ARS is in progress before issuing a Start ARS function. If a successful status is returned, the
extended status of the Query ARS Status function indicates to OSPM one of the following:
• An ARS has been completed and ARS results are returned. These results should be processed by OSPM before
issuing another Start ARS function. When a new address range scrub operation is started, the previous ARS
results are lost.
• An ARS is in progress and no ARS results are returned. A Start ARS function fails while an ARS is in progress.
OSPM should periodically issue Query ARS Status functions until the ARS is no longer in progress.
• There has been no ARS since the platform was booted so there are no ARS results returned. A new Start ARS
function may be issued.
• An ARS stopped prematurely and partial results are returned. If the platform has more data to return than will
fit in the Max Query ARS Status Output Buffer Size (see Section 9.19.7.4). OSPM may issue Start ARS and
Query ARS Status functions in a loop and retrieve all of the ARS Error Records, modifying the ARS Start SPA
Address and length with each iteration.
If a Start ARS function is issued, the OSPM provides the ARS Start SPA Address and ARS Length for the range to
be scrubbed. If the previous ARS stopped prematurely, these fields should be set to the values from the Restart ARS
Start SPA Address and Restart ARS Length from the previous Query ARS Status output buffer. For any Start ARS
function, OSPM may optionally set the Flags Bit[0] to indicate to the platform that the ARS is a priority and may
cause delays in other processing, such as when booting. The output from a successful Start ARS function provides an
estimated time for the scrub to complete as a hint to the OSPM regarding when to issue a Query ARS Status function.
As indicated in the Query ARS Capabilities function output, a platform may issue the asynchronous event notification
0x81 (Unconsumed Uncorrectable Memory Error Detected Notification) when new uncorrectable errors are detected.
Upon receiving the notification, the OSPM may decide to issue a Start ARS with Flags Bit [1] set to prepare for the
retrieval of existing records and issue the Query ARS Status function to retrieve the records. The OSPM can pass the
9.19. NVDIMM Devices
657
