Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
(_BCL) object or another OS-specific mechanism (see Section 9.3.8).
9.3.6 _ALP (Ambient Light Polling)
This optional object evaluates to a recommended polling frequency (in tenths of seconds) for this ambient light sensor.
A value of zero - or the absence of this object when other ALS objects are defined - indicates that OSPM does not
need to poll the sensor in order to detect meaningful changes in ambient light (the hardware is capable of generating
asynchronous notifications).
The use of polling is allowed but strongly discouraged by this specification. OEMs should design systems that asyn-
chronously notify OSPM whenever a meaningful change in the ambient light occurs–relieving the OS of the overhead
associated with polling.
This value is specified as tenths of seconds. For example, a value of 10 would be used to indicate a 1 second polling
frequency. As this is a recommended value, OSPM will consider other factors when determining the actual polling
frequency to use.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the recommended polling frequency in tenths of seconds
0 - Polling by the host OS is not required
Other - The recommended polling frequency in tenths of seconds
9.3.7 Ambient Light Sensor Events
To communicate meaningful changes in ALS illuminance to OSPM, AML code should issue a Notify(als_device, 0x80)
whenever the lux reading changes more than 10% (from the last reading that resulted in a notification). OSPM receives
this notification and evaluates the _ALI control method to determine the current ambient light status. The OS then
adjusts the display brightness based upon its ALS policy (derived from _ALR).
The definition of what constitutes a meaningful change is left to the system integrator, but should be at a level of
granularity that provides an appropriate response without overly taxing the system with unnecessary interrupts. For
example, an ALS configuration may be tuned to generate events for all changes in ambient light illuminance that result
in a minimum ±5% display brightness response (as defined by _ALR).
To communicate meaningful changes in ALS color temperature to OSPM, AML code should issue a Notify(als_device,
0x81) whenever the lux reading changes more than 10% (from the last reading that resulted in a notification). OSPM
receives this notification and evaluates the _ALT and _ALC control method to determine the current ambient light
color temperature.
To communicate meaningful changes in ALS response to OSPM, AML code should issue a Notify(als_device, 0x82)
whenever the set of points used to convey ambient light response has changed. OSPM receives this notification and
evaluates the _ALR object to determine the current response points.
9.3. Ambient Light Sensor Device
601
