CHAPTER
THREE
ACPI CONCEPTS
Platforms compliant with the ACPI specification provide OSPM with direct and exclusive control over the power man-
agement and motherboard device configuration functions of a computer. During OS initialization, OSPM takes over
these functions from legacy implementations such as the APM BIOS, SMM-based firmware, legacy applications, and
the PNPBIOS. Having done this, OSPM is responsible for handling motherboard device configuration events as well as
for controlling the power, performance, and thermal status of the system based on user preference, application requests
and OS imposed Quality of Service (QOS) / usability goals. ACPI provides low-level interfaces that allow OSPM to
perform these functions. The functional areas covered by the ACPI specification are:
System power management
ACPI defines mechanisms for putting the computer as a whole in and out of system sleeping states. It also
provides a general mechanism for any device to wake the computer.
Device power management
ACPI tables describe motherboard devices, their power states, the power planes the devices are connected to, and
controls for putting devices into different power states. This enables the OS to put devices into low-power states
based on application usage.
Processor power management
While the OS is idle but not sleeping, it will use commands described by ACPI to put processors in low-power
states.
Device and processor performance management
While the system is active, OSPM will transition devices and processors into different performance states, defined
by ACPI, to achieve a desirable balance between performance and energy conservation goals as well as other
environmental requirements (for example, visibility and acoustics).
Configuration / Plug and Play
ACPI specifies information used to enumerate and configure motherboard devices. This information is arranged
hierarchically so when events such as docking and undocking take place, the OS has precise, a priori knowledge
of which devices are affected by the event.
System Events
ACPI provides a general event mechanism that can be used for system events such as thermal events, power
management events, docking, device insertion and removal, and so on. This mechanism is very flexible in that it
does not define specifically how events are routed to the core logic chip set.
Battery management
Battery management policy moves from the APM BIOS to the ACPI OS. An ACPI-compatible battery device
needs either a Smart Battery subsystem interface, which is controlled by the OS directly through the embedded
controller interface, or a Control Method Battery interface. A Control Method Battery interface is completely
defined by AML control methods, allowing an OEM to choose any type of the battery and any kind of communi-
cation interface supported by ACPI. The battery must comply with the requirements of its interface, as described
either herein or in other applicable standards. The OS may choose to alter the behavior of the battery, for exam-
ple, by adjusting the Low Battery or Battery Warning trip point. When there are multiple batteries present, the
29
