Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
9.7.3 Serial ATA (SATA) Controller Device
9.7.3.1 Definitions
HBA
Host Bus Adapter
Native SATA aware
Refers to system software (platform firmware, option ROM, operating system, etc) that comprehends a particular
SATA HBA implementation and understands its programming interface and power management behavior.
Non-native SATA aware
Refers to system software (platform firmware, option ROM, operating system, etc) that does not comprehend a
particular SATA HBA implementation and does not understand its programming interface or power management
behavior. Typically, non-native SATA aware software will use a SATA HBA’s emulation interface (e.g. task file
registers) to control the HBA and access its devices.
Emulation mode
Optional mode supported by a SATA HBA. Allows non-native SATA aware software to access SATA devices
via traditional task file registers.
Native mode
Optional mode supported by a SATA HBA. Allows native SATA aware software to access SATA devices via
registers that are specific to the HBA.
Hybrid Device
Refers to a SATA HBA that implements both an emulation and a native programming interface.
9.7.3.2 Overview
A SATA HBA differs from an IDE controller in a number of ways. First, it can save its complete device context.
Second, it replaces IDE channels, which may support up to 2 attached devices, with ports, which support only a single
attached device, unless a port multiplier is present. See the SATA spec at “Links to ACPI-Related Documents” (
http://uefi.org/acpi ) under the heading “SATA Specification”for more information. Finally, SATA does not require
timing information from the platform, allowing a simplification in how SATA controllers are represented in ACPI.
(_GTM and _STM are replaced by the simpler _SDD method.)
All ports, even those attached off a port multiplier, are represented as children directly under the SATA controller device.
This is practical because the SATA specification does not allow a port multiplier to be attached to a port multiplier.
Each port’s _ADR indicates to which root port they are connected, as well as the port multiplier location, if applicable
(see Table 6.2)
Since this specification only covers the configuration of motherboard devices, it is also the case that the control methods
defined in this section cannot be used to send taskfiles to devices attached via either an add-in SATA HBA, or attached
via a motherboard SATA HBA, if used with a port multiplier that is not also on the motherboard.
The following shows an example SATA namespace:
\_SB - System bus
PCI0 - PCI bus
SATA - SATA Controller device
ADR - Indicates address of the controller on the PCI bus
PR0 - Power resources needed for D0 power state
PRT0 - Port 0 device
_ADR - Indicates physical port and port multiplier topology
_SDD - Identify information for drive attached to this port
(continues on next page)
9.7. ATA Controller Devices
608
