Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
ò Note
Error source types 3, 4, and 5 are reserved for legacy reasons and must not be used.
ò Note
Starting with revision 2 of HEST, the Error Source Structures must be sorted in Type ascending order for Error
Source Structure Types of less than 12.
ò Note
Beginning with error source type 12 and onward, each Error Source Structure must use the standard Error Source
Structure Header as defined in Section 18.3.2.11.
The following sections detail each of the specific error source descriptors.
18.3.2.1 IA-32 Architecture Machine Check Exception
Processors implementing the IA-32 Instruction Set Architecture employ a machine check exception mechanism to alert
OSPM to the presence of an uncorrected hardware error condition. The information in this table is used by OSPM to
configure the machine check exception mechanism for each processor in the system.
Only one entry of this type is permitted in the HEST. OSPM applies the information specified in this entry to all
processors.
Table 18.3: IA-32 Architecture Machine Check Exception Structure
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Type
2
0
0 - IA-32 Architecture Machine Check Exception Structure.
Source Id
2
2
This value serves to uniquely identify this error source against other error
sources reported by the platform.
Reserved
2
4
Reserved.
Flags
1
6
Bit [0] - FIRMWARE_FIRST: If set, this bit indicates to the OSPM that
the interrupt handler from system firmware will run first for this error
source.
Bit [2] - GHES_ASSIST: If set, this bit indicates that although OSPM is
responsible for directly handling the error (as expected when
FIRMWARE_FIRST is not set), system firmware may report additional
information in the context of the error reported by hardware. The
additional information is reported in a Generic Hardware Error Source
structure with a matching Related Source ID. See Section 18.7,
GHES_ASSIST Error Reporting. NOTE: If FIRMWARE_FIRST is set,
this bit is reserved.
All other bits are reserved.
continues on next page
18.3. Error Source Discovery
847
