Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5.2.31.2 Cache Type Structure - Type 1
The cache type structure is described in Table 5.191. The cache type structure can be used to represent a set of caches
that are private to a particular processor hierarchy node structure, that is, to a particular node in the processor topology
tree. The set of caches is described as a NULL, or zero, terminated linked list. Only the head of the list needs to be
listed as a resource by a processor node (and counted toward Number of Private Resources), as the cache node itself
contains a link to the next level of cache.
Cache type structures are optional, and can be used to complement or replace cache discovery mechanisms provided
by the processor architecture. For example, some processor architectures describe individual cache properties, but do
not provide ways of discovering which processors share a particular cache. When cache structures are provided, all
processor caches must be described in a cache type structure.
Each cache type structure includes a reference to the cache type structure that represents the next level cache. The level
in this context must relate to the CPU architecture’s definition of cache level. The list must include all caches that are
private to a processor hierarchy node. It is not permissible to skip levels. That is, a cache node included in a given
hierarchy processor node level must not point to a cache structure referred to by a processor node in a different level of
the hierarchy.
For example, if a node represents a CPU that has a private L1 and private L2 cache, the list would contain both caches
(L1->L2->0). If on the other hand the L2 cache was shared, the list would just include the L1 (L1->0), and a parent
processor topology node, to all processors that share the L2, would contain the cache type structure that represents the
shared L2.
Processors, or higher level nodes within the hierarchy, with separate instruction and data caches must describe the
instruction and data caches with separate linked lists of cache type structures both listed as private resources of the
relevant processor hierarchy node structure. If the separate instruction and data caches are unified at a higher level of
cache then the linked lists should converge.
Consider the example shown in the following figure.
Fig. 5.15: Cache Type Structure - Type 1 Example
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
270
