Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5.2.9.1 Preferred PM Profile System Types
The following descriptions of preferred power management profile system types are to be used as a guide for setting the
Preferred_PM_Profile field in the FADT. OSPM can use this field to set default power management policy parameters
during OS installation.
Desktop
A single user, full featured, stationary computing device that resides on or near an individual’s work area. Most
often contains one processor. Must be connected to AC power to function. This device is used to perform work
that is considered mainstream corporate or home computing (for example, word processing, Internet browsing,
spreadsheets, and so on).
Mobile
A single-user, full-featured, portable computing device that is capable of running on batteries or other power
storage devices to perform its normal functions. Most often contains one processor. This device performs the
same task set as a desktop. However it may have limitations dues to its size, thermal requirements, and/or power
source life.
Workstation
A single-user, full-featured, stationary computing device that resides on or near an individual’s work area. Often
contains more than one processor. Must be connected to AC power to function. This device is used to perform
large quantities of computations in support of such work as CAD/CAM and other graphics-intensive applications.
Enterprise Server
A multi-user, stationary computing device that frequently resides in a separate, often specially designed, room.
Will almost always contain more than one processor. Must be connected to AC power to function. This device is
used to support large-scale networking, database, communications, or financial operations within a corporation
or government.
SOHO Server
A multi-user, stationary computing device that frequently resides in a separate area or room in a small or home
office. May contain more than one processor. Must be connected to AC power to function. This device is
generally used to support all of the networking, database, communications, and financial operations of a small
office or home office.
Appliance PC
A device specifically designed to operate in a low-noise, high-availability environment such as a consumer’s
living rooms or family room. Most often contains one processor. This category also includes home Internet
gateways, Web pads, set top boxes and other devices that support ACPI. Must be connected to AC power to
function. Normally they are sealed case style and may only perform a subset of the tasks normally associated
with today’s personal computers.
Performance Server
A multi-user stationary computing device that frequently resides in a separate, often specially designed room.
Will often contain more than one processor. Must be connected to AC power to function. This device is used
in an environment where power savings features are willing to be sacrificed for better performance and quicker
responsiveness.
Tablet
A full-featured, highly mobile computing device which resembles writing tablets and which users interact with
primarily through a touch interface. The touch digitizer is the primary user input device, although a keyboard
and/or mouse may be present. Tablet devices typically run on battery power and are generally only plugged
into AC power in order to charge. This device performs many of the same tasks as Mobile; however battery life
expectations of Tablet devices generally require more aggressive power savings especially for managing display
and touch components.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
124
