Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 14.7 – continued from previous page
Command
Complete up-
date
register
address
12
116
Contains the processor relative address, represented in Generic Address
Structure (GAS) format, of the command complete update register.
Notes:
- Only the System I/O, System Memory, and Functional Fixed Hardware
spaces are valid for values for Address_Space_ID.
- It is valid for the Command Complete update register to be the same as
the Command Complete check register and point to the same address.
Command
Complete up-
date
preserve
mask
8
128
Mask of bits to preserve in the command complete update register, when
updating command complete in this subspace.
Command
Complete
update
set
mask
8
136
Mask of bits to set in the Command Complete update register, when updat-
ing Command Complete in this subspace. For Initiator subspaces, setting
this mask results in the Command Complete bit being cleared. For Re-
sponder subspaces, setting this mask results in the Command Complete
bit being set. Note: OSPM clears those bits in the Command Complete
update registers, which are neither set in the Command Complete update
preserve mask nor the Command Complete update set mask.
Error
status
register
12
144
Contains the processor relative address, represented in Generic Address
Structure (GAS) format, of the Error status register. This field is ignored
by the OSPM on Responder channels Note: Only the System I/O, System
Memory, and Functional Fixed Hardware spaces are valid for values for
Address_Space_ID Note: this register can be the same as the command
complete check register.
Error
status
mask
8
156
The mask contained here can be combined through a logical AND with
content of the Error status register to ascertain whether an error occurred in
the transmission of the command through the subspace. The logical NOT
of this mask is be used to clear the error. The inverted mask is combined
through a logical AND with the content of the Error status register, and the
result is written back into said register. This field is ignored for Responder
channels.
ò Note
Inaccurate values for the Maximum Periodic Access Rate and Minimum Request Turnaround Time fields can result
in punitive side effects for features that rely on the PCC interface. The Platform should report accurate values that
allow for maximum channel efficiency while maintaining maximum channel stability.
Responder subspaces may be used by the platform to send asynchronous notifications to the OSPM. Responder subspace
entries in the PCCT share the same format as Initiator subspaces, with the following modifications:
• Type is set to 4 - Responder subspace
• The doorbell may be zero and if so must be ignored by the OSM. If present, the platform can request that the
OSPM writes to the doorbell after it has processed a notification.
If a Responder subspace is included in the PCCT, then the global Platform Interrupt flag (see Table 14.2) must be set
to 1.
14.1. Platform Communications Channel Table
805
