Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
5. Program the SLP_TYPx fields with the values contained in the selected sleeping object.
ò Note
Compatibility — The _GTS method is deprecated in ACPI 5.0A. For earlier versions, execute the _GTS
control method, passing an argument that indicates the sleeping state to be entered (1, 2, 3, or 4 representing
S1, S2, S3, and S4).
6. If entering S1, S2, or S3, flush the processor caches.
7. If not entering S4BIOS, set the SLP_EN bit to start the sleeping sequence. (This actually occurs on the same
write operation that programs the SLP_TYPx field in the PM1_CNT register.) If entering S4BIOS, write the
S4BIOS_REQ value into the SMI_CMD port.
8. If HW-reduced, program the register indicated by the SLEEP_CONTROL_REG FADT field with the HW-
reduced ACPI Sleep Type value (retrieved from the sleep state object in step 4 above) and with the SLP_EN
bit set to one.
9. On systems containing processors without a hardware mechanism to place the processor in a low-power state,
execute appropriate native instructions to place the processor in a low-power state.
The _PTS control method provides the platform runtime firmware a mechanism for performing some housekeeping,
such as writing the sleep type value to the embedded controller, before entering the system sleeping state. Control
method execution occurs “just prior” to entering the sleeping state and is not an event synchronized with the write to
the PM1_CNT register. Execution can take place several seconds prior to the system actually entering the sleeping
state. As such, no hardware power-plane sequencing takes place by execution of the _PTS control method.
ò Note
Compatibility — The _BFS method is deprecated in ACPI 5.0A. In earlier versions, on waking, the _BFS control
method is executed. OSPM then executes the _WAK control method. This control method executes OEM-specific
ASL/AML code that can search for any devices that have been added or removed during the sleeping state.
The following sections describe the sleeping state attributes.
16.1.1 S1 Sleeping State
The S1 state is defined as a low wake-latency sleeping state. In this state, all system context is preserved with the ex-
ception of CPU caches. Before entering S1, OSPM will flush the system caches. If the platform supports the WBINVD
instruction (as indicated by the WBINVD and WBINVD_FLUSH flags in the FADT), OSPM will execute the WBINVD
instruction. The hardware is responsible for maintaining all other system context, which includes the context of the
CPU, memory, and chipset.
Examples of S1 sleeping state implementation alternatives follow.
16.1. Sleeping States
826
