Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
8.2 Flushing Caches
To support the C3 power state without using the ARB_DIS feature, the hardware must provide functionality to flush
and invalidate the processors’ caches (for an IA processor, this would be the WBINVD instruction). To support the S1,
S2 or S3 sleeping states, the hardware must provide functionality to flush the platform caches. Flushing of caches is
supported by one of the following mechanisms:
• Processor instruction to write back and invalidate system caches (WBINVD instruction for IA processors).
• Processor instruction to write back but not invalidate system caches (WBINVD instruction for IA processors and
some chipsets with partial support; that is, they don’t invalidate the caches).
The ACPI specification expects all platforms to support the local CPU instruction for flushing system caches (with
support in both the CPU and chipset), and provides some limited “best effort” support for systems that don’t currently
meet this capability. The method used by the platform is indicated through the appropriate FADT fields and flags
indicated in this section.
ACPI specifies parameters in the FADT that describe the system’s cache capabilities. If the platform properly supports
the processor’s write back and invalidate instruction (WBINVD for IA processors), then this support is indicated to
OSPM by setting the WBINVD flag in the FADT.
If the platform supports neither of the first two flushing options, then OSPM can attempt to manually flush the cache if
it meets the following criteria:
• A cache-enabled sequential read of contiguous physical memory of not more than 2 MB will flush the platform
caches.
• There are two additional FADT fields needed to support manual flushing of the caches:
• FLUSH_SIZE, typically twice the size of the largest cache in the system.
• FLUSH_STRIDE, typically the smallest cache line size in the system.
8.3 Power, Performance, and Throttling State Dependencies
Cost and complexity trade-off considerations have driven into the platform control dependencies between logical pro-
cessors when entering power, performance, and throttling states. These dependencies exist in various forms in multi-
processor, multi-threaded processor, and multi-core processor-based platforms. These dependencies may also be hier-
archical. For example, a multi-processor system consisting of processors containing multiple cores containing multiple
threads may have various dependencies as a result of the hardware implementation.
Unless OSPM is aware of the dependency between the logical processors, it might lead to scenarios where one logical
processor is implicitly transitioned to a power, performance, or throttling state when it is unwarranted, leading to
incorrect / non-optimal system behavior. Given knowledge of the dependencies, OSPM can coordinate the transitions
between logical processors, choosing to initiate the transition when doing so does not lead to incorrect or non-optimal
system behavior. This OSPM coordination is referred to as Software (SW) Coordination. Alternately, it might be
possible for the underlying hardware to coordinate the state transition requests on multiple logical processors, causing
the processors to transition to the target state when the transition is guaranteed to not lead to incorrect or non-optimal
system behavior. This scenario is referred to as Hardware (HW) coordination. When hardware coordinates transitions,
OSPM continues to initiate state transitions as it would if there were no dependencies. However, in this case it is required
that hardware provide OSPM with a means to determine actual state residency so that correct / optimal control policy
can be realized.
Platforms containing logical processors with cross-processor dependencies in the power, performance, or throttling state
control areas use ACPI defined interfaces to group logical processors into what is referred to as a dependency domain.
The Coordination Type characteristic for a domain specifies whether OSPM or underlying hardware is responsible for
the coordination. When OSPM coordinates, the platform may require that OSPM transition ALL (0xFC) or ANY ONE
8.2. Flushing Caches
522
