Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.226: Device Object Notification Values
Value
Description
0
Bus Check. This notification is performed on a device object to indicate to OSPM that it needs
to perform a Plug and Play re-enumeration operation on the device tree starting from the point
where it has been notified. OSPM will typically perform a full enumeration automatically at boot
time, but after system initialization it is the responsibility of the ACPI AML code to notify OSPM
whenever a re-enumeration operation is required. The more accurately and closer to the actual
change in the device tree the notification can be done, the more efficient the operating system’s
response will be; however, it can also be an issue when a device change cannot be confirmed.
For example, if the hardware cannot recognize a device change for a particular location during a
system sleeping state, it issues a Bus Check notification on wake to inform OSPM that it needs to
check the configuration for a device change.
1
Device Check. Used to notify OSPM that the device either appeared or disappeared. If the device
has appeared, OSPM will re-enumerate from the parent. If the device has disappeared, OSPM will
invalidate the state of the device. OSPM may optimize out re-enumeration. If _DCK is present,
then Notify(object,1) is assumed to indicate an undock request. If the device is a bridge, OSPM
may re-enumerate the bridge and the child bus.
2
Device Wake. Used to notify OSPM that the device has signaled its wake event, and that OSPM
needs to notify OSPM native device driver for the device. This is only used for devices that support
_PRW.
3
Eject Request. Used to notify OSPM that the device should be ejected, and that OSPM needs to
perform the Plug and Play ejection operation. OSPM will run the _EJx method.
4
Device Check Light. Used to notify OSPM that the device either appeared or disappeared. If the
device has appeared, OSPM will re-enumerate from the device itself, not the parent. If the device
has disappeared, OSPM will invalidate the state of the device.
5
Frequency Mismatch. Used to notify OSPM that a device inserted into a slot cannot be attached
to the bus because the device cannot be operated at the current frequency of the bus. For example,
this would be used if a user tried to hot-plug a 33 MHz PCI device into a slot that was on a bus
running at greater than 33 MHz.
6
Bus Mode Mismatch. Used to notify OSPM that a device has been inserted into a slot or bay that
cannot support the device in its current mode of operation. For example, this would be used if a
user tried to hot-plug a PCI device into a slot that was on a bus running in PCI-X mode.
7
Power Fault. Used to notify OSPM that a device cannot be moved out of the D3 state because of
a power fault.
8
Capabilities Check. This notification is performed on a device object to indicate to OSPM that it
needs to re-evaluate the _OSC control method associated with the device.
9
Device _PLD Check. Used to notify OSPM to reevaluate the _PLD object, as the Device’s con-
nection point has changed.
0xA
Reserved.
0xB
System Locality Information Update. Dynamic reconfiguration of the system may cause existing
relative distance information to change. The platform sends the System Locality Information Up-
date notification to a point on a device tree to indicate to OSPM that it needs to invoke the _SLI
objects associated with the System Localities on the device tree starting from the point notified.
0x0C
Reserved.
0x0D
System Resource Affinity Update. Dynamic migration of devices may cause existing system re-
source affinity to change. The platform software issues the System Resource Affinity Update no-
tification to a point on a device tree to indicate to OSPM that it needs to invoke the _PXM object
of the notified device to update the resource affinity.
continues on next page
5.6. ACPI Event Programming Model
336
