Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
For warm removal, the _EJ1-_EJ4 control methods do not cause the device to be immediately ejected. Instead, they
set proprietary registers to prepare the hardware to eject when the system goes into the given sleep state. The hardware
ejects the device only after OSPM has put the system in a sleep state by writing to the SLP_EN register. After the
system resumes, OSPM calls _STA to determine if the eject succeeded.
A device object may have multiple _EJx control methods. First, it lists an EJx control method for the preferred sleeping
state to eject the device. Optionally, the device may list an EJ4 control method to be used when the system has no power
(for example, no battery) after the eject. For example, a hot-docking notebook might list _EJ0 and _EJ4.
6.3.4 _LCK (Lock)
This control method is optional and is required only for a device that supports a software-controlled locking mechanism.
When the OS invokes this control method, the associated device is to be locked or unlocked based upon the value of
the argument that is passed. On a lock request, the control method must not complete until the device is completely
locked.
Arguments:
Arg0 - An Integer containing a device lock control
0 - Unlock the device
1 - Lock the device
Return Value:
None
When describing a platform, devices use either a _LCK control method or an _EJx control method for a device.
6.3.5 _OST (OSPM Status Indication)
This object is an optional control method that is invoked by OSPM to indicate processing status to the platform. During
device ejection, device hot add, Error Disconnect Recover, or other event processing, OSPM may need to perform
specific handshaking with the platform. OSPM may also need to indicate to the platform its inability to complete a
requested operation; for example, when a user presses an ejection button for a device that is currently in use or is
otherwise currently incapable of being ejected. In this case, the processing of the ACPI Eject Request notification by
OSPM fails. OSPM may indicate this failure to the platform through the invocation of the _OST control method. As a
result of the status notification indicating ejection failure, the platform may take certain action including reissuing the
notification or perhaps turning on an appropriate indicator light to signal the failure to the user.
Arguments: (3)
Arg0 - An Integer containing the source event
Arg1 - An Integer containing the status code
Arg2 - A Buffer containing status information
Return Value:
None
Argument Information:
Arg0 - source_event: DWordConst
If the value of source_event is <= 0xFF, this argument is the ACPI notification value whose processing generated the
status indication. This is the value that was passed into the Notify operator.
6.3. Device Insertion, Removal, and Status Objects
420
