Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
12.10 SMBus Devices
The embedded controller interface provides the system with a standard method to access devices on the SMBus. It does
not define the data and/or access protocol(s) used by any particular SMBus device. Further, the embedded controller
can (and probably will) serve as a gatekeeper to prevent accidental or malicious access to devices on the SMBus.
Some SMBus devices are defined by their address and a specification that describes the data and the protocol used to
access that data. For example, the Smart Battery System devices are defined by a series of specifications including:
• Smart Battery Data specification
• Smart Battery Charger specification
• Smart Battery Selector specification
• Smart Battery System Manager specification
The embedded controller can also be used to emulate (in part or totally) any SMBus device.
12.10.1 SMBus Device Access Restrictions
In some cases, the embedded controller interface will not allow access to a particular SMBus device. Some SMBus
devices can and do communicate directly between themselves. Unexpected accesses can interfere with their normal
operation and cause unpredictable results.
12.10.2 SMBus Device Command Access Restriction
There are cases where part of an SMBus device’s commands are public while others are private. Extraneous attempts
to access these commands might cause interference with the SMBus device’s normal operation.
The Smart Battery and the Smart Battery Charger are good examples of devices that should not have their entire
command set exposed. The Smart Battery commands the Smart Battery Charger to supply a specific charging voltage
and charging current. Attempts by anyone to alter these values can cause damage to the battery or the mobile system.
To protect the system’s integrity, the embedded controller interface can restrict access to these commands by returning
one of the following error codes: Device Command Access Denied (0x12) or Device Access Denied (0x17).
12.11 Defining an Embedded Controller Device in ACPI Namespace
An embedded controller device is created using the named device object. The embedded controller’s device object
requires the following elements:
Table 12.20: Embedded Controller Device Object Control Methods
Object
Description
_CRS
Named object that returns the Embedded Controller’s current resource settings. Embedded Con-
trollers are considered static resources; hence only return their defined resources. The embedded
controller resides only in system I/O or memory space. The first address region returned is the
data port, and the second address region returned is the status/command port for the embedded
controller. If the EC is used on a HW-Reduced ACPI platform, a third resource is required, which
is the GPIO Interrupt Connection resource for the EC’s SCI Interrupt. CRS is a standard device
configuration control method defined in _CRS (Current Resource Settings).
continues on next page
12.10. SMBus Devices
780
