Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
subsequently handled by the operating system.
System
A system is the entirety of a computing entity, including all elements in a platform (hardware, firmware) and
software (operating system, user applications, user data). A system can be thought of both as a logical construct
(e.g. a software stack) or physical construct (e.g. a notebook, a desktop, a server, a network switch, etc).
System BIOS
A term sometimes used in industry to refer to either Legacy BIOS, or to UEFI Core System BIOS, or both. Please
use this term only when referring to Legacy BIOS. See also: BIOS, Legacy BIOS.
System Context
The volatile data in the system that is not saved by a device driver.
System Control Interrupt (SCI)
A system interrupt used by hardware to notify the OS of ACPI events. The SCI is an active, low, shareable, level
interrupt.
System Management Bus (SMBus)
A two-wire interface based upon the I2C protocol. The SMBus is a low-speed bus that provides positive address-
ing for devices, as well as bus arbitration.
System Management Interrupt (SMI)
An OS-transparent interrupt generated by interrupt events on legacy systems. By contrast, on ACPI systems,
interrupt events generate an OS-visible interrupt that is shareable (edge-style interrupts will not work). Hardware
platforms that want to support both legacy operating systems and ACPI systems must support a way of re-mapping
the interrupt events between SMIs and SCIs when switching between ACPI and legacy models.
Thermal States
Thermal states represent different operating environment temperatures within thermal zones of a system. A
system can have one or more thermal zones; each thermal zone is the volume of space around a particular
temperature-sensing device. The transitions from one thermal state to another are marked by trip points, which
are implemented to generate an SCI when the temperature in a thermal zone moves above or below the trip point
temperature.
UEFI
One form of Host Processor Boot Firmware which uses a Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) structure
(as defined by the UEFI Forum). This is the current host processor boot firmware structure being adopted as a
standard in the industry. This term should be used when referring specifically to UEFI code on a platform.
UEFI Drivers
Standalone binary executables in PECOFF format which are loaded by UEFI during the boot process to handle
specific pieces of hardware.
eXtended Root System Description Table (XSDT)
The XSDT provides identical functionality to the RSDT but accommodates physical addresses of DESCRIP-
TION HEADERs that are larger than 32 bits. Notice that both the XSDT and the RSDT can be pointed to by the
RSDP structure.
2.1. General ACPI Terminology
23
