Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
6. Execute an END_OPERATION to notify the platform that the record read operation is complete.
The platform carries out a clear request by performing the following steps:
1. Sets some internal state to indication that it is busy. OSPM polls by executing a CHECK_BUSY_STATUS action
until the operation is completed.
2. Using the record identifier supplied by OSPM through the SET_RECORD_IDENTIFIER operation, determine
which error record to clear. This value may not be 0x0 (unspecified).
3. Locate the specified error record on the persistent store.
4. Mark the record as free by updating the Attributes in its serialization header.
5. Update internal record count.
6. Clear internal busy state so when OS PM executes CHECK_BUSY_STATUS, the result indicates that the oper-
ation is complete.
When the Error Log Address Range resides in NVRAM, the OS requires no platform support to Clear error records.
18.5.2.4 Usage
This section describes several possible ways the error record serialization mechanism might be implemented.
18.5.2.4.1 Error Log Address Range Resides in NVRAM
If the Error Log Address Range resides in NVRAM, then when OSPM writes a record into the logging range, the record
is automatically persistent and the busy bit can be cleared immediately. On a subsequent boot, OSPM can read any
persisted error records directly from the persistent store range. The size of the persistent store, in this case, is expected
to be enough for several error records.
18.5.2.4.2 Error Log Address Range Resides in (volatile) RAM
In this implementation, the Error Log Address Range describes an intermediate location for error records. To persist
a record, OSPM copies the record into the Error Log Address Range and sets the Execute, at which time the platform
runs necessary code (SMM code on non-UEFI based systems and UEFI runtime code on UEFI-enabled systems) to
transfer the error record from main memory to some persistent store. To read a record, OSPM asks the platform to
copy a record from the persistent store to a specified offset within the Error Log Address Range. The size of the Error
Log Address Range is at least large enough for one error record.
18.5.2.4.3 Error Log Address Range Resides on Service Processor
In this type of implementation, the Error Log Address Range is really MMIO. When OSPM writes an error record to
the Error Log Address Range, it is really writing to memory on a service processor. When the OSPM sets the Execute
control bit, the platform knows that the OSPM is done writing the record and can do something with it, like move
it into a permanent location (i.e. hard disk) on the service processor. The size of the persistent store in this type of
implementation is typically large enough for one error record.
18.5. Error Serialization
875
