Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
State
Status
Definition
D0
Required
Back-end is on Video controller context is preserved Video memory contents are pre-
served
D1
Optional
Back-end is off, except for CRT control signaling (DPMS) Video controller context
is preserved Video memory contents is preserved Latency to return to D0 is less than
100 milliseconds
D2
Optional
Back-end is off, except for CRT control signaling (DPMS) Video controller context is
lost Video memory contents is lost Latency to return to D0 is less than 200 milliseconds
D3
Required
Back-end is off Video controller context is lost (power removed) Video memory con-
tents is lost (power removed) Latency to return to D0 is less than 200 milliseconds
A.6.1.1 Display Codecs
Like the displays they control, display codecs are children of the adapter and cannot be in a higher state than the adapter
or a lower state than the displays they control . It is generally not helpful to deal with codecs entirely separately from
the adapter or the displays they control. While it may vary from device to device, a codec will either be safely powered
down when its display is powered down or it may require power as long as the adapter receives power.
A.6.2 Display Device Power Management Policy
Table A-13: Display Device Power Management Policy
Present
State
Next
State
Cause
D0
D1
User inactivity for a period of time (T1)
D1
D2
User inactivity for a period of time (T2 > T1)
D2
D3
User inactivity for a period of time (T3 > T2)
D1/D2/D3 D0
User activity or application UI change (for example, dialog pop-up)
These state transition definitions apply to both the full screen display and the video controller. However, the control
of the two devices is independent, except that a video controller will never be put into a lower power state than its full
screen display. Also, while full screen displays can transition directly from D1 to D3 or from D2 to D3, the adapters
require a transition to D0 from D1 or D2 before entering D3.
Transitions for the video controller are commanded via the bus-specific control mechanism for device states. Moni-
tor/LCD transitions are commanded by signaling from the video controller and are only generated as a result of explicit
commands from the policy-owner. Full screen display power control is functionally independent from any other in-
terface the monitor may provide (such as USB). For instance, Hubs and HID devices in the monitor enclosure may be
power-managed by their driver over the USB bus, but the Monitor/LCD device itself may not; it must be power-managed
from the video controller using the methods above.
A.6. Display Device Class
1100
