Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 10.7 – continued from previous page
Field
Format
Description
Power
Threshold
Support Capability
Integer
This is the power threshold support capability that must be declared
by the platform firmware to indicate what power threshold it sup-
ports. Refer to the table below for more details.
Maximum Instanta-
neous Peak Power
Threshold Value
Integer
The maximum threshold for instantaneous peak output power of the
battery. This defines the maximum threshold setting for use as an
input to _BPT. The unit for this value is mW or mA, based on the
Power Unit value returned by _BIX.
Maximum Sustain-
able
Peak
Power
Threshold Value
Integer
The maximum threshold for sustainable peak output power of the
battery. This defines the maximum threshold setting for use as an
input to _BPT. The unit for this value is mW or mA, based on the
Power Unit value returned by _BIX.
Table 10.8: Battery Power Threshold Support Capability
Bit
Interpretation
[1:0]
0 – The platform firmware does not support thresholds for the battery Peak Power.
1 – The platform firmware supports the threshold for the battery Instantaneous Peak Power.
2 – The platform firmware supports the threshold for the battery Sustainable Peak Power.
3 – The platform firmware supports the threshold for both the battery Instantaneous Peak Power
and the Sustainable Peak Power.
[31:2]
Reserved (must be 0)
10.2.2.9 _BPS (Battery Power State)
This optional object returns the power delivery capabilities of the battery at the present time. If multiple batteries are
present within the system, the sum of peak power levels from each battery can be used to determine the total available
power.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
A Package containing the battery power delivery capabilities as described below
Return Value Information:
_BPS returns a package in the format below:
Package () {
Revision,
// Integer
Instantaneous Peak Power Level,
// Integer
Instantaneous Peak Power Period,
// Integer
Sustainable Peak Power Level,
// Integer
(continues on next page)
10.2. Control Method Batteries
702
