CHAPTER
SEVENTEEN
NON-UNIFORM MEMORY ACCESS (NUMA) ARCHITECTURE
PLATFORMS
Systems employing a Non Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) architecture contain collections of hardware resources
including processors, memory, and I/O buses, that comprise what is commonly known as a “NUMA node”. Two
or more NUMA nodes are linked to each other via a high-speed interconnect. Processor accesses to memory or I/O
resources within the local NUMA node are generally faster than processor accesses to memory or I/O resources outside
of the local NUMA node, accessed via the node interconnect. ACPI defines interfaces that allow the platform to convey
NUMA node topology information to OSPM both statically at boot time and dynamically at run time as resources are
added or removed from the system.
In addition, devices such as coherent accelerators, coherent memory devices, or coherent switches can describe their
NUMA characteristics information to OSPM or to system firmware using the Coherent Device Attribute Table (CDAT)
structures. For more information, see the CDAT reference link at http://uefi.org/acpi, under the heading “Coherent
Device Attribute Table (CDAT) Specification”.
17.1 NUMA Node
A conceptual model for a node in a NUMA configuration may contain one or more of the following components:
• Processor
• Memory
• I/O Resources
• Networking, Storage
• Chipset
The components defined as part of the model are intended to represent all possible components of a NUMA node. A
specific node in an implementation of a NUMA platform may not provide all of these components. At a minimum,
each node must have a chipset with an interface to the interconnect between nodes.
The defining characteristic of a NUMA system is a coherent global memory and/or I/O address space that can be
accessed by all of the processors. Hence, at least one node must have memory, at least one node must have I/O resources,
and at least one node must have processors. Other than the chipset, which must have components present on every node,
each is implementation dependent. In the ACPI namespace, NUMA nodes are described as module devices. See the
Module Device section.
840
