Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 9.2: Control Method Ambient Light Sensor Device
Object
Description
_ALI
The current ambient light illuminance reading in lux (lumen per square meter). [Required]
_ALC
The current ambient light color chromaticity reading, specified using x and y coordinates per the
CIE Yxy color model. [Optional]
_ALT
The current ambient light color temperature reading in degrees Kelvin. [Optional]
_ALR
Returns a set of ambient light illuminance to display brightness mappings that can be used by an
OS to calibrate its ambient light policy. [Required]
_ALP
Ambient light sensor polling frequency in tenths of seconds. [Optional]
9.3.1 Overview
This definition provides a standard interface by which the OS may query properties of the ambient light environment the
system is currently operating in, as well as the ability to detect meaningful changes in these values when the environment
changes. Two ambient light properties are currently supported by this interface: illuminance and color.
Ambient light illuminance readings are obtained via the _ALI method. Illuminance readings indicate the amount of
light incident upon (falling on) a specified surface area. Values are specified in lux (lumen per square meter) and give
an indication of how “bright” the environment is. For example, an overcast day is roughly 1000 lux, a typical office
environment 300-400 lux, and a dimly-lit conference room around 10 lux.
A possible use of ambient light illuminance data by the OS is to automatically adjust the brightness (or luminance)
of the display device - e.g. increase display luminance in brightly-lit environments and decrease display luminance in
dimly-lit environments. Note that Luminance is a measure of light radiated (reflected, transmitted, or emitted) by a
surface, and is typically measured in nits. The _ALR method provides a set of ambient light illuminance to display
luminance mappings that can be used by an OS to calibrate its policy for a given platform configuration.
Ambient light color readings are obtained via the _ALT and/or _ALC methods. Two methods are defined to allow
varying types/complexities of ambient light sensor hardware to be used. _ALT returns color temperature readings
in degrees Kelvin. Color temperature values correlate a light source to a standard black body radiator and give an
indication of the type of light source present in a given environment (e.g. daylight, fluorescent, incandescent). ALC
returns color chromaticity readings per the CIE Yxy color model. Chromaticity x and y coordinates provide a more
straightforward indication of ambient light color characteristics. Note that the CIE Yxy color model is defined by
the International Commission on Illumination (abbreviated as CIE from its French title Commission Internationale de
l’Eclairage) and is based on human perception instead of absolute color.
A possible use of ambient light color data by the OS is to automatically adjust the color of displayed images depending
on the environment the images are being viewed in. This may be especially important for reflective/transflective displays
where the type of ambient light may have a large impact on the colors perceived by the user.
9.3.2 _ALI (Ambient Light Illuminance)
This control method returns the current ambient light illuminance reading in lux (lumen per square meter). Expected
values range from ~1 lux for a dark room, ~300 lux for a typical office environment, and 10,000+ lux for daytime
outdoor environments - although readings may vary depending on the location of the sensor to the light source. Special
values are reserved to indicate out of range conditions (see below).
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the ambient light brightness in lux (lumens per square meter)
9.3. Ambient Light Sensor Device
596
