Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 9.12: User Presence Detection Device
Object
Description
_UPD
The current user presence detection reading. [Required]
_UPP
User presence detection polling frequency in tenths of seconds. [Optional]
9.15.1 _UPD (User Presence Detect)
This control method returns the user presence detection reading, indicating whether or not the user is currently present
from the perspective of this sensor. Three states are currently defined for UPD sensor readings: absent, present, and
unknown, represented by the values 0x00, 0x01, and 0xFF respectively. The unknown state is used to convey that the
sensor is currently unable to determine user presence due to some environmental or other transient factor. All other
values are reserved.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the user presence code:
0x00 - Absent: A user is not currently detected by this sensor.
0x01 - Present: A user is currently detected by this sensor.
0xFF - Unknown: The sensor is currently unable to determine if a user is present or absent.
9.15.2 _UPP (User Presence Polling)
This optional object evaluates to a recommended polling frequency (in tenths of seconds) for this user presence sensor.
A value of zero - or the absence of this object when other UPD objects are defined - indicates that the OS does not
need to poll the sensor in order to detect meaningful changes in user presence (the hardware is capable of generating
asynchronous notifications).
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the recommended polling frequency in tenths of seconds. A value of zero indicates
that polling is not required.
The use of polling is allowed but strongly discouraged by this specification. OEMs should design systems that asyn-
chronously notify OSPM whenever a meaningful change in user presence occurs–relieving the OS of the overhead
associated with polling.
This value is specified as tenths of seconds. For example, a value of 10 would be used to indicate a 1 second polling
frequency. As this is a recommended value, OSPM will consider other factors when determining the actual polling
frequency to use.
9.15. User Presence Detection Device
635
