Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 3.1 – continued from previous page
Low
This value is an estimation of the amount of energy or battery capacity required by the system
to transition to any supported sleeping state. When the OS detects that the total available
battery capacity is less than this value, it will transition the system to a user defined system
state (S1-S4). In most situations this should be S4 so that system state is not lost if the battery
eventually becomes completely empty. The design of the OS should consider that users of
a multiple battery system may remove one or more of the batteries in an attempt replace
or charge it. This might result in the remaining capacity falling below the “Low” level not
leaving sufficient battery capacity for the OS to safely transition the system into the sleeping
state. Therefore, if the batteries are discharging simultaneously, the action might need to be
initiated at the point when both batteries reach this level.
Critical
The Critical battery state indicates that all available batteries are discharged and do not ap-
pear to be able to supply power to run the system any longer. When this occurs, the OS must
attempt to perform an emergency shutdown as described below.
For a smart battery system, this would typically occur when all batteries reach a capacity of
0, but an OEM may choose to put a larger value in the Smart Battery Table to provide an
extra margin of safely.
For a Control Method Battery system with multiple batteries, the flag is reported per battery.
If any battery in the system is in a critically low state and is still providing power to the system
(in other words, the battery is discharging), the system is considered to be in a critical energy
state. The _BST control method is required to return the Critical flag on a discharging battery
only when all batteries have reached a critical state; the ACPI system firmware is otherwise
required to switch to a non-critical battery.
3.9.4.1 Emergency Shutdown
Running until all batteries in a system are critical is not a situation that should be encountered normally, since the
system should be put into a sleeping state when the battery becomes low. In the case that this does occur, the OS should
take steps to minimize any damage to system integrity. The emergency shutdown procedure should be designed to
minimize bad effects based on the assumption that power may be lost at any time. For example, if a hard disk is spun
down, the OS should not try to spin it up to write any data, since spinning up the disk and attempting to write data
could potentially corrupt files if the write were not completed. Even if a disk is spun up, the decision to attempt to save
even system settings data before shutting down would have to be evaluated since reverting to previous settings might
be less harmful than having the potential to corrupt the settings if power was lost halfway through the write operation.
3.9.5 Battery Calibration
The reported capacity of many batteries generally degrade over time, providing less run time for the user. However, it
is possible with many battery systems to provide more usable runtime on an old battery if a calibration or conditioning
cycle is run occasionally. The user has typically been able to perform a calibration cycle either by going into the
platform boot firmware setup menu, or by running a custom driver and calibration application provided by the OEM.
The calibration process typically takes several hours, and the laptop must be plugged in during this time. Ideally the
application that controls this should make this as good of a user experience as possible, for example allowing the user
to schedule the system to wake up and perform the calibration at some time when the system will not be in use. Since
the calibration user experience does not need to be different from system to system it makes sense for this service to be
provided by the OSPM. In this way OSPM can provide a common experience for end users and eliminate the need for
OEMs to develop custom battery calibration software.
In order for OSPM to perform generic battery calibration, generic interfaces to control the two basic calibration func-
tions are required. These functions are defined in Power Source and Power Meter Devices and _BST (Battery Status).
First, there is a means to detect when it would be beneficial to calibrate the battery. Second there is a means to perform
that calibration cycle. Both of those functions may be implemented by dedicated hardware such as a battery controller
3.9. Battery Management
45
