Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
4.8.2.2.2.2 Control Method Sleep Button
The sleep button programming model can also use the generic hardware programming model. This allows the sleep
button to reside in any of the generic hardware address spaces (for example, the embedded controller) instead of fixed
space. If the sleep button is implemented via generic hardware, then the OEM needs to define the sleep button as a
device with an _HID object value of “PNP0C0E”, which then identifies this device as the sleep button to OSPM. The
AML event handler then generates a Notify command to notify OSPM that a sleep button event was generated. While
in the working state, a sleep button press is a user request to transition the system into the sleeping (G1) state. In
these cases the sleep button event handler issues the Notify command with the device specific code of 0x80. This will
indicate to OSPM to pass control to the sleep button driver (PNP0C0E) with the knowledge that the user is requesting
a transition out of the G0 state. Upon waking-up from a G1 sleeping state, the AML event handler generates a Notify
command with the code of 0x2 to indicate it was responsible for waking the system.
The sleep button device needs to be declared as a device within the ACPI Namespace for the platform and only requires
an _HID. An example definition is shown below.
The AML code below does the following:
• Creates a device named “SLPB” and associates the Plug and Play identifier (through the _HID object) of
“PNP0C0E.”
• The Plug and Play identifier associates this device object with the sleep button driver.
• Creates an operational region for the control method sleep button’s programming model: System I/O space at
0x201.
• Fields that are not accessed are written as “1s” (these status bits clear upon writing a “1” to their bit position,
hence preserved would fail in this case).
• Creates a field within the operational region for the sleep button status bit (called PBP). In this case the sleep
button status bit is a child of the general-purpose status bit 0. When this bit is set it is the responsibility of the
AML code to clear it (OSPM clears the general-purpose status bits). The address of the status bit is 0x201.0 (bit
0 at address 0x201).
• Creates an additional status bit called PBW for the sleep button wake event. This is the next bit and its physical
address would be 0x201.1 (bit 1 at address 0x201).
• Generates an event handler for the sleep button that is connected to bit 0 of the general-purpose status register 0.
The event handler does the following:
• Clears the sleep button status bit in hardware (writes a “1” to it).
• Notifies OSPM of the event by calling the Notify command passing the sleep button object and the device specific
event indicator 0x80.
// Define a control method sleep button
Device(\_SB.SLPB)
{
Name (_HID, EISAID("PNP0C0E"))
Name (_PRW, Package(){0x01, 0x04})
OperationRegion (\Boo, SystemIO, 0x201, 0x1)
Field (\Boo, ByteAcc, NoLock, WriteAsZeros)
{
SBP, 1,
// sleep request
SBW, 1
// wakeup request
}
}
(continues on next page)
4.8. ACPI Register Model
73
