Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Note: FFH is permitted and applicable to both full and HW-reduced ACPI implementations.
4.1.1 Hardware-Reduced Events
HW-reduced ACPI platforms require alternatives to some of the features supported in the ACPI HW Specification,
where none already exists. There are two areas that require such alternatives: The ACPI Platform Event Model, and
System and Device Wakeup.
4.1.1.1 GPIO-Signaled Events or Interrupt Signaled Events
General Purpose Input/Output (GPIO) hardware can be used for signaling platform events. GPIO HW is a generalization
of the GPE model, and is a shared hardware resource used for many applications. ACPI support for GPIO is described
in section Connection Resources. ACPI 6.1 introduces the capability to signal events via interrupts. See Interrupt-
signaled ACPI events for further details.
GPIO based event signaling is provided through GPIO interrupt connections, which describe the connection to a GPIO
controller and pin, and which are mapped to the ACPI Event Handling mechanism via the ACPI Event Information
namespace object (_AEI). OSPM treats GPIO Interrupt Connections listed in _AEI exactly as it does SCI interrupts: it
executes the Event Method associated with the specific event. The name of the method to run is determined by the pin
information contained in the GPIO Interrupt Connection resource. See GPIO-signaled ACPI Events for further details.
GPIO-signaled events can also be wake events, just as GPE events can on traditional ACPI platforms. Designating
which events are wake events is done through attributes of the GPIO Interrupt Connection resource used.Devices may
use _PRW to manage wake events as described in _PRW (Power Resources for Wake).
Interrupt based event signaling follows a similar methodology, a generic event device (GED) is declared which in turn
describes all interrupts associated with event generation. The interrupts are listed in a _CRS object. When an interrupt is
asserted the OSPM will execute the event method (_EVT) declared in the GED object specifying the interrupt identifier
as a parameter. In this way the interrupt can be associated with specific platform events.
4.1.1.2 Interrupt-based Wake Events
Wake events on HW-reduced ACPI platforms are always caused by an interrupt reaching the processor. Therefore,
there are two requirements for waking the system from a sleep or low-power idle state, or a device from a low-power
state. First, the interrupt line must be Wake-Capable. Wake-capable interrupts are designed to be able to be delivered
to the processor from low-power states. This implies that it must also cause the processor and any required platform
hardware to power-up so that an Interrupt Service Routine can run. Secondly, an OS driver must enable the interrupt
before entering a low-power state, or before OSPM puts the system into a sleep or low-power idle state.
Wake-capable interrupts are designated as such in their Extended Interrupt or GPIO Interrupt Connection resource
descriptor.
4.2 Fixed Hardware Programming Model
Because of the changes needed for migrating legacy hardware to the fixed category, ACPI limits the features specified
by fixed hardware. Fixed hardware features are defined by the following criteria:
• Performance sensitive features
• Features that drivers require during wake
• Features that enable catastrophic OS software failure recovery
4.2. Fixed Hardware Programming Model
53
