Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
The value resulting from this opcode is 64 bits. It is monotonically increasing, but it is not guaranteed that every result
will be unique, i.e. two subsequent instructions may return the same value. The only guarantee is that each subsequent
evaluation will be greater-than or equal to the previous ones.
The period of this timer is 100 nanoseconds. While the underlying hardware may not support this granularity, the
interpreter will do the conversion from the actual timer hardware frequency into 100 nanosecond units.
Users of this opcode should realize that a value returned only represents the time at which the opcode itself executed.
There is no guarantee that the next opcode in the instruction stream will execute in any particular time bound.
The OSPM can implement this using the ACPI Timer and keep track of overrun. Other implementations are possible.
This provides abstraction away from chipset differences
ò Note
Compatibility Note New for ACPI 3.0
19.6.137 ToBCD (Convert Integer to BCD)
Syntax:
ToBCD (Value, Result) => Integer
Arguments
Value is evaluated as an integer
Description
The ToBCD operator is used to convert Value from a numeric (Integer) format to a BCD format and optionally store
the numeric value into Result.
19.6.138 ToBuffer (Convert Data to Buffer)
Syntax:
ToBuffer (Data, Result)
=> Buffer
Arguments
Data must be an Integer, String, or Buffer data type.
Description
Data is converted to buffer type and the result is optionally stored into Result. If Data is an integer, it is converted into n
bytes of buffer (where n is 4 if the definition block has defined integers as 32 bits or 8 if the definition block has defined
integers as 64 bits as indicated by the Definition Block table header’s Revision field), taking the least significant byte of
integer as the first byte of buffer. If Data is a buffer, no conversion is performed. If Data is a string, each ASCII string
character is copied to one buffer byte, including the string null terminator. A null (zero-length) string will be converted
to a zero-length buffer.
19.6. ASL Operator Reference
1043
