Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 4.3: Example Event Structure for a Legacy/ACPI Compatible Event Model
interrupt (SCI#). This logic is represented by routing the event logic through the decoder that routes the
events to the SMI# arbiter when the SCI_EN bit is cleared, or to the SCI# arbiter when the SCI_EN bit is
set.
Hardware events
These events are used to trigger the hardware to initiate some hardware sequence such as waking, resetting,
or putting the system to sleep unconditionally.
In this example, the legacy power management event logic is used to determine device/system activity or idleness based
on device idle timers, device traps, and the global standby timer. Legacy power management models use the idle timers
to determine when a device should be placed in a low-power state because it is idle–that is, the device has not been
accessed for the programmed amount of time. The device traps are used to indicate when a device in a low-power state
is being accessed by OSPM. The global standby timer is used to determine when the system should be allowed to go
into a sleeping state because it is idle–that is, the user interface has not been used for the programmed amount of time.
These legacy idle timers, trap monitors, and global standby timer are not used by OSPM in the ACPI mode. This
work is handled by different software structures in an ACPI-compatible OS. For example, the driver model of an ACPI-
compatible OS is responsible for placing its device into a low-power state (D1, D2, D3hot, or D3) and transitioning it
back to the On state (D0) when needed. And OSPM is responsible for determining when the system is idle by profiling
the system (using the PM Timer) and other knowledge it gains through its operating structure environment (which will
vary from OS to OS). When the system is placed into the ACPI mode, these events no longer generate SMIs, as OSPM
handles this function. These events are disabled through some OEM-proprietary method.
On the other hand, many of the hardware events are shared between the ACPI and legacy models (docking, the power
button, and so on) and this type of interrupt event changes to an SCI event when enabled for ACPI. The ACPI OS will
generate a request to the platform runtime firmware to enter into the ACPI mode. The firmware sets the SCI_EN bit
to indicate that the system has successfully entered into the ACPI mode, so this is a convenient mechanism to map the
desired interrupt (SMI or SCI) for these events (as shown in Figure 4-3).
The ACPI architecture specifies some dedicated hardware not found in the legacy hardware model: the power manage-
ment timer (PM Timer). This is a free running timer that the ACPI OS uses to profile system activity. The frequency
of this timer is explicitly defined in this specification and must be implemented as described.
4.6. The ACPI Hardware Model
59
