Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
The Time and Alarm device must support control method _PRW for being enabled to wake up the system. It might
support _DSW or _PSW to provide the functionality to enable or disable the device’s ability to wake a sleep system.
On Hardware-reduced ACPI platforms, _PRW is only required if the device depends on ACPI-defined power resources.
_PRW’s GPEInfo structure is ignored by OSPM. For enabling Wakeup, _DSW and _SxW are used, and the wakeup
event is signaled by the GPIO-signaled ACPI event mechanism (see Section 5.6.5).
The Plug and Play ID of the Time and Wake Alarm device is ACPI000E.
Table 9.13: Time and Alarm Device
Object
Description
_GCP
Get the capabilities of the time and alarm device
_GRT
Get the Real time
_SRT
Set the Real time
_GWS
Get Wake status
_CWS
Clear Wake Status
_STP
Sets expired timer wake policy for the specified timer.
_STV
Sets the value in the specified timer.
_TIP
Returns the current expired timer policy setting of the specified timer.
_TIV
Returns the remaining time of the specified timer.
9.17.1 Overview
The Time and Alarm device provides an alternative to the real time clock (RTC), which is defined as a fixed feature
hardware device. The wake timers allow the system to transition from the S3 (or optionally S4/S5) state to S0 state after
a time period elapses. In comparison with the Real Time Clock (RTC) Alarm, the Time and Alarm device provides a
larger scale of flexibility in the operation of the wake timers, and allows the implementation of the time source to be
abstracted from the OSPM.
Time and Alarm device provides the OSPM with a firmware abstraction of time and alarm services that can be applicable
to a variety of hardware designs. The methods for setting and getting real time provide an alternative to the (RTC).
Time and Alarm devices that implement AC/DC wake service contain two programmable timers that can be config-
ured to wake the system depending on the platform’s current power source (AC or DC) when the timers expire. The
two timers, which are referred to as the AC timer and the DC timer, are independent in that they are individually pro-
grammable and applicable without interfering each other. Each of the timers can be programmed with the number of
seconds to elapse from the time the timer is programmed until a wake is requested. When a timer expires, the Time
and Alarm device decides whether to wake the system based on the current power source. If the current power source
is consistent with the timer type that expired, a wake signal will be asserted. Otherwise, the wake signal will not be
asserted.
Time and Alarm devices that implement the AC only (power independent) wake contain one programmable timer that
can be configured to wake up the system regardless of the platform’s power source when the timer expires. To simplify
the programming interface the AC wake will use the AC timer portion of the AC/DC wake; writes to the DC timer
when AC only wake is supported will be ignored.
To simplify the programming interface for the time and alarm device, timer expiration events will persist. This means
that if the OSPM programs a wake timer that expires before the OSPM completes the transition into S3 (or S4/S5 if
supported) the time and alarm device will wake the system immediately after the OSPM completes the transition. Fig.
9.6 illustrates this behavior.
The time and alarm device will provide the OSPM with an interface to query the status of the wake timers and discover
what timers have expired. This interface enables the OSPM to discover the wake source. The status of wake timers
can be reset by setting the wake alarm; the OSPM may clear the alarm status using the clear wake status method. All
9.17. Time and Alarm Device
637
