Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.13 – continued from previous page
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Firmware Waking Vector
4
12
This
field
is
superseded
by
the
X_Firmware_Waking_Vector field.
The 32-bit ad-
dress field where OSPM puts its waking vector. Before
transitioning the system into a global sleeping state,
OSPM fills in this field with the physical memory
address of an OS-specific wake function.
During
POST, the platform firmware first checks if the value
of the X_Firmware_Waking_Vector field is non-zero
and if so transfers control to OSPM as outlined in the
X_Firmware_Waking_vector field description below. If
the X_Firmware_Waking_Vector field is zero then the
platform firmware checks the value of this field and if
it is non-zero, transfers control to the specified address.
On PCs, the wake function address is in memory below
1 MB and the control is transferred while in real mode.
OSPM’s wake function restores the processors’ context.
For IA-PC platforms, the following example shows
the relationship between the physical address in the
Firmware Waking Vector and the real mode address the
BIOS jumps to. If, for example, the physical address
is 0x12345, then the BIOS must jump to real mode
address 0x1234:0x0005. In general this relationship is
Real-mode address = Physical address>>4 : Physical
address and 0x000F Notice that on IA-PC platforms,
A20 must be enabled when the BIOS jumps to the real
mode address derived from the physical address stored
in the Firmware Waking Vector.
Global Lock
4
16
This field contains the Global Lock used to synchronize
access to shared hardware resources between the OSPM
environment and an external controller environment (for
example, the SMI environment). This lock is owned ex-
clusively by either OSPM or the firmware at any one
time. When ownership of the lock is attempted, it might
be busy, in which case the requesting environment exits
and waits for the signal that the lock has been released.
For example, the Global Lock can be used to protect an
embedded controller interface such that only OSPM or
the firmware will access the embedded controller inter-
face at any one time. See Section 5.2.10.1 for more in-
formation on acquiring and releasing the Global Lock.
Flags
4
20
Table 5.14
continues on next page
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
127
