Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
bits are undefined and can return zero or one (in contrast to reserved bits, which always return zero). Software
ignores ignored bits in ACPI hardware registers on reads and preserves ignored bits on writes.
Intel Architecture-Personal Computer (IA-PC)
A general descriptive term for computers built with processors conforming to the architecture defined by the Intel
processor family based on the Intel Architecture instruction set and having an industry-standard PC architecture.
I/O APIC
An Input/Output Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller routes interrupts from devices to the processor’s
local APIC.
I/O SAPIC
An Input/Output Streamlined Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller routes interrupts from devices to the
processor’s local APIC.
Label Storage Area
A persistent storage area reserved for Label storage.
Legacy
A computer state where power management policy decisions are made by the platform hardware/firmware
shipped with the system. The legacy power management features found in today’s systems are used to support
power management in a system that uses a legacy OS that does not support the OS-directed power management
architecture.
Legacy BIOS
One form of Host Processor Boot Firmware used on x86 platforms which uses a legacy x86 BIOS structure. This
form of host processor boot firmware has been or is being replaced by UEFI. This term will likely be most useful
in distinguishing and comparing older forms of firmware to newer forms (e.g., “it was done this way in legacy
BIOS, but is now done another way in UEFI). See also: BIOS, System BIOS.
Legacy Hardware
A computer system that has no ACPI or OSPM power management support.
Legacy OS
An OS that is not aware of and does not direct the power management functions of the system. Included in this
category are operating systems with APM 1.x support.
Local APIC
A local Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller receives interrupts from the I/O APIC.
Local SAPIC
A local Streamlined Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller receives interrupts from the I/O SAPIC.
Management Firmware
Firmware used only by a Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) or other Out-of-Band (OOB) management
controller.
Multiple APIC Description Table (MADT)
The Multiple APIC Description Table (MADT) is used on systems supporting the APIC and SAPIC to describe
the APIC implementation. Following the MADT is a list of APIC/SAPIC structures that declare the APIC/SAPIC
features of the machine.
Namespace
A namespace defines a contiguously-addressed range of Non-Volatile Memory, conceptually similar to a SCSI
Logical Unit (LUN) or an NVM Express namespace. A namespace can be described by one or more Labels.
Non-Host Processor
A non-host processor is a generic term used to describe any processing unit on a platform which is not a host
processor (e.g. a microcontroller, co-processor, etc). For the purposes of this particular ECR, this should also
be considered a synonym for “secondary processor”, those CPUs that might be on an SoC, for example, that are
not the host (or “boot”) processor.
2.1. General ACPI Terminology
20
