Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
6.5.7 _GLK (Global Lock)
This optional named object is located within the scope of a device object. This object returns a value that indicates to any
entity that accesses this device (in other words, OSPM or any device driver) whether the Global Lock must be acquired
when accessing the device. OS-based device accesses must be performed while in acquisition of the Global Lock when
potentially contentious accesses to device resources are performed by non-OS code, such as System Management Mode
(SMM)-based code in Intel architecture-based systems.
ò Note
Default behavior: if _GLK is not present within the scope of a given device, then the Global Lock is not required
for that device.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer that contains the Global Lock requirement code:
0 - The Global Lock is not required for this device
1 - The Global lock is required for this device
An example of device resource contention is a device driver for an SMBus-based device contending with SMM-based
code for access to the Embedded Controller, SMB-HC, and SMBus target device. In this case, the device driver must
acquire and release the Global Lock when accessing the device to avoid resource contention with SMM-based code
that accesses any of the listed resources.
6.5.8 _DEP (Device Dependencies)
_DEP evaluates to a package and designates device objects that OSPM should assign a higher priority in start ordering
due to dependencies between devices (for example, related to future operation region accesses).
To increase the likelihood that an SPB operation region handler is available when needed, OSPM needs to know in
advance which methods will access it – _DEP provides OSPM with this information. While the _DEP keyword may be
used to determine start ordering, only the _REG method (_REG (Region)) callbacks can be relied upon to determine
whether a region is accessible at a given point in time.
Arguments:
None.
Return Value:
A variable-length Package containing object references.
Example:
Device(\_SB.TC3) {
...
OperationRegion(OPRG,
GenericSerialBus,
0x00,
0x100)
...
(continues on next page)
6.5. Other Objects and Control Methods
482
