Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 10.5 – continued from previous page
Field
Format
Description
Design Voltage
Integer (DWORD)
Nominal voltage of a new battery.
0x000000000 - 0x7FFFFFFF in [mV]
0xFFFFFFFF - Unknown design voltage
Design capacity of
Warning
Integer (DWORD)
OEM-designed battery warning capacity. See Low Battery Levels
0x000000000 - 0x7FFFFFFF in [mWh] or [mAh]
Design Capacity of
Low
Integer (DWORD)
OEM-designed low battery capacity. See Low Battery Levels
0x000000000 - 0x7FFFFFFF in [mWh] or [mAh]
Cycle Count
Integer (DWORD)
The number of cycles the battery has experienced. A cycle is
defined as: An amount of discharge approximately equal to the
value of Design Capacity.
0x000000000 - 0xFFFFFFFE
0xFFFFFFFF - Unknown cycle count
Measurement Accu-
racy
Integer (DWORD)
The accuracy of the battery capacity measurement, in thousandth of
a percent. (0% - 100.000%) For example, The value 80000 would
mean 80% accuracy.
Max Sampling Time
Integer (DWORD)
The sampling time is the duration between two consecutive measure-
ments of the battery’s capacities specified in _BST, such as present
rate and remaining capacity. If the OSPM makes two succeeding
readings through _BST beyond the duration, two different results
will be returned. The Max Sampling Time is the maximum sam-
pling time the battery can support, in milliseconds. 0xFFFFFFFF is
returned if the information is unavailable.
Min Sampling Time
Integer (DWORD)
The Min Sampling Time is the minimum sampling time the battery
can support, in milliseconds. 0xFFFFFFFF is returned if the infor-
mation is unavailable.
Max Averaging In-
terval
Integer (DWORD)
The Average Interval is the length of time (in milliseconds) within
which the battery averages the capacity measurements specified in
_BST, such as remaining capacity and present rate. The Sampling
time specifies the frequency of measurements, and the average inter-
val specifies the width of the time window of every measurement.
This field indicates the maximum Average Interval that the battery
supports.
Min Averaging In-
terval
Integer (DWORD)
This field indicates the minimum Average Interval that the battery
supports
Battery
Capacity
Granularity 1
Integer (DWORD)
Battery capacity granularity between low and warning in [mAh] or
[mWh]. That is, this is the smallest increment in capacity that the
battery is capable of measuring. See note below for more details
continues on next page
10.2. Control Method Batteries
695
