Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
19.3.5.1 Data Type Conversion Overview
ASL provides two mechanisms to convert objects from one data type to another data type at run-time (during execution
of the AML interpreter). The first mechanism, Explicit Data Type Conversion, allows the use of explicit ASL operators
to convert an object to a different data type. The second mechanism, Implicit Data Type Conversion, is invoked by the
AML interpreter when it is necessary to convert a data object to an expected data type before it is used or stored.
The following general rules apply to data type conversions:
• Input parameters are always subject to implicit data type conversion (also known as implicit source operand
conversion) whenever the operand type does not match the expected input type.
• Output (target) parameters for all operators except the explicit data conversion operators are subject to implicit
data type conversion (also known as implicit result object conversion) whenever the target is an existing named
object or named field that is of a different type than the object to be stored.
• Output parameters for the explicit data conversion operators, as well as output parameters that refer to a method
local or argument (LocalX or ArgX) are not subject to implicit type conversion.
Both of these mechanisms (explicit and implicit conversion) are described in detail in the sections that follow.
19.3.5.2 Explicit Data Type Conversions
The following ASL operators are provided to explicitly convert an object from one data type to another:
ToBuffer
Convert an Integer, String, or Buffer to an object of type Buffer
ToDecimalString
Convert an Integer, String, or Buffer to an object of type String. The string contains the ASCII represen-
tation of the decimal value of the source operand.
ToHexString
Convert an Integer, String, or Buffer to an object of type String. The string contains the ASCII represen-
tation of the hexadecimal value of the source operand.
ToInteger
Convert an Integer, String, or Buffer to an object of type Integer.
ToString
Copy directly and convert a Buffer to an object of type String.
The following ASL operator is provided to copy and transfer objects with an explicit result conversion of the type of
the target to match the type of the source object:
CopyObject
Explicitly store a copy of the operand object to the target name. No implicit type conversion is performed.
(This operator is used to avoid the implicit conversion inherent in the ASL Store operator.)
19.3. ASL Concepts
934
