Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
and _OFF drive a vote rather than the physical HW controls for the power rail. In this case, _STA reflects the status of
the vote rather than the physical state of PWRB.
OSPM guarantees ordering between PWRA/PWRB’s _ON and _OFF transitions and DEVA/DEVB’s D-state transi-
tions. That is, PWRA can only be turned OFF after DEVA has left D0, and must be turned ON before transitioning
DEVA to D0. However, the OS requirements for ordering between power resource transitions and power resource
dependent LPI states differ based on the coordination scheme.
In a platform coordinated system, OSPM may or may not track the power state of PWRA before selecting local state
2 or 3. The platform must independently guarantee that PWRA is OFF before entering local state 2 or 3, and must
demote to a shallower state if OSPM selects local state 2 or 3 when PWRA is still on. Note that because OSPM is
required to correctly sequence power resource transitions with device power transitions, the platform does not need to
check the state of DEVA; it can rely on the state of PWRA to infer that DEVA is in an appropriate D-state.
Similarly, OSPM may or may not track the state of PWRB and PWRC before selecting local state 3, and the platform
must independently guarantee that PWRB is off before entering either state. Because PWRC is a passive power resource,
the platform does not know when the reference count on the power resource reaches 0 and instead must track DEVC’s
state itself. Unless the platform has other mechanisms to track the state of DEVC, PWRC should be defined as a
traditional power resource so that the platform can use its _ON and _OFF methods to guarantee correctness of operation.
In an OS initiated system, OSPM is required to guarantee that PWRA is OFF before selecting either local state 2 or
3. OSPM may meet this guarantee by waiting until it believes a processor is the last man down in the system, before
checking the state of PWRA, and only selecting local state 2 or 3 in this case. If the processor was the last man
down, then the request to enter local state 2 or 3 is legal and the platform can honor it. If another processor woke up
in the meantime and turned PWRA on, then this becomes a race between processors which is addressed in the OS
Initiated Request Semantics section (OS Initiated Request Semantics). Similarly, OSPM must guarantee PWRB is off
and PWRC’s reference count is 0 before selecting local state 3.
In an OS initiated system, because OSPM guarantees that power resources are in their correct states before selecting
system power states, the platform should use passive power resources unless there is additional runtime power savings
to turning a power resource OFF. On a platform that only supports OS Initiated transitions, PWRB should be defined as
a passive power resource because it is shared with processors and can only be turned off when the system power state
is entered.
8.4.3.5 Compatibility
In order to support older operating systems which do not support the new idle management infrastructure, the _OSC
method can be used to detect whether the OSPM supports parsing processor containers and objects associated with
LPIs and (_LPI, _RDI). This is described in Rules for Evaluating _OSC.
A platform may choose to expose both _CST and _LPI for backward compatibility with operating systems which do
not support _LPI. In this case, if OSPM supports _LPI, then it should be used in preference to _CST. At run time only
one idle state methodology should be used across the entire processor hierarchy - _LPI or _CST, but not a mixture of
both.
8.4.4 Processor Throttling Controls
ACPI defines two processor throttling (T state) control interfaces. These are:
• The Processor Register Block’s (P_BLK’s) P_CNT register.
• The combined _PTC, _TSS, and _TPC objects in the processor’s object list.
P_BLK based throttling state controls are described in ACPI Hardware Specification. Combined _PTC, _TSS, and
_TPC based throttling state controls expand the functionality of the P_BLK based control allowing the number of T
states to be dynamic and accommodate CPU architecture specific T state control mechanisms as indicated by registers
defined using the Functional Fixed Hardware address space. While platform definition of the _PTC, _TSS, and _TPC
8.4. Declaring Processors
553
