Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 4.12: PM1 Enable Registers Fixed Hardware Feature Enable
Bits
Bit
Name
Description
0
TMR_EN
This is the timer carry interrupt enable bit. When this bit is set then an SCI
event is generated anytime the TMR_STS bit is set. When this bit is reset
then no interrupt is generated when the TMR_STS bit is set.
1-4
Reserved
Reserved. These bits always return a value of zero.
5
GBL_EN
The global enable bit. When both the GBL_EN bit and the GBL_STS bit
are set, an SCI is raised.
6-7
Reserved
Reserved
8
PWRBTN_EN
This optional bit is used to enable the setting of the PWRBTN_STS bit to
generate a power management event (SCI or wake). The PWRBTN_STS
bit is set anytime the power button is asserted. The enable bit does not have
to be set to enable the setting of the PWRBTN_STS bit by the assertion of
the power button (see description of the power button hardware). Support
for the power button is indicated by the PWR_BUTTON flag in the FADT
being reset (zero). If the PWR_BUTTON flag is set or a power button device
object is present in the ACPI Namespace, then this bit field is ignored by
OSPM.
9
SLPBTN_EN
This optional bit is used to enable the setting of the SLPBTN_STS bit to
generate a power management event (SCI or wake). The SLPBTN_STS bit
is set anytime the sleep button is asserted. The enable bit does not have to
be set to enable the setting of the SLPBTN_STS bit by the active assertion
of the sleep button (see description of the sleep button hardware). Support
for the sleep button is indicated by the SLP_BUTTON flag in the FADT
being reset (zero). If the SLP_BUTTON flag is set or a sleep button device
object is present in the ACPI Namespace, then this bit field is ignored by
OSPM.
10
RTC_EN
This optional bit is used to enable the setting of the RTC_STS bit to generate
a wake event. The RTC_STS bit is set any time the RTC generates an alarm.
11-13
Reserved
Reserved. These bits always return a value of zero.
14
PCIEXP_WAKE_DIS
This bit is optional for chipsets that implement PCI Express. This bit dis-
ables the inputs to the PCIEXP_WAKE_STS bit in the PM1 Status register
from waking the system. Modification of this bit has no impact on the value
of the PCIEXP_WAKE_STS bit.
15
Reserved
Reserved. These bits always return a value of zero.
4.8.3.2 PM1 Control Grouping
The PM1 Control Grouping has a set of bits that can be distributed between two different registers. This allows these
registers to be partitioned between two chips, or all placed in a single chip. Although the bits can be split between
the two register blocks (each register block has a unique pointer within the FADT), the bit positions specified here are
maintained. The register block with unimplemented bits (that is, those implemented in the other register block) returns
zeros, and writes have no side effects.
4.8. ACPI Register Model
81
