Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
11.4.6 _DTI (Device Temperature Indication)
This optional object may be present under a device and is evaluated by OSPM when the device’s native (driver man-
aged) temperature sensor has crossed a cooling temperature trip point or when a meaningful change in temperature (as
indicated by evaluation of the _NTT object) has occurred. OSPM evaluation of the _DTI object enables the platform
to take action as a result of these events. For example, the platform may choose to implement fan control hysteresis
based on the conveyed value or signal the revaluation of the _TDL or _PDL objects.
Arguments:(1)
Arg0 - An Integer containing the current value of the temperature sensor (in tenths Kelvin)
Return Value:
None
11.4.7 _HOT (Hot Temperature)
This optional object, when defined under a thermal zone, returns the critical temperature at which OSPM may choose to
transition the system into the S4 sleeping state. The platform vendor should define _HOT to be far enough below _CRT
so as to allow OSPM enough time to transition the system into the S4 sleeping state. While dependent on the amount
of installed memory, on typical platforms OSPM implementations can transition the system into the S4 sleeping state
in tens of seconds. If this object it present under a device, the device’s driver evaluates this object to determine the
device’s hot cooling temperature trip point. This value may then be used by the device’s driver to program an internal
device temperature sensor trip point.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer containing the critical temperature threshold in tenths of degrees Kelvin
The return value is an integer that represents the critical sleep threshold tenths of degrees Kelvin. For example, 300.0K
is represented by the integer 3000.
11.4.8 _MTL (Minimum Throttle Limit)
This object, when defined under a thermal zone, returns the minimum throttle limit of a zone. This will determine how
much a thermal zone limits the performance of its controlled devices. This value can be used by OSPM to calculate
the changes in performance limits it applies to the devices of the thermal zone.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer value with the current minimum throttle limit, expressed as a percentage
11.4. Thermal Objects
739
