Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
2.2 Global System State Definitions
Global system states (Gx states) apply to the entire system and are visible to the user.
Global system states are defined by six principal criteria:
1. Does application software run?
2. What is the latency from external events to application response?
3. What is the power consumption?
4. Is an OS reboot required to return to a working state?
5. Is it safe to disassemble the computer?
6. Can the state be entered and exited electronically?
Following is a list of the system states:
G3 Mechanical Off
A computer state that is entered and left by a mechanical means (for example, turning off the system’s power
through the movement of a large red switch). It is implied by the entry of this off state through a mechanical
means that no electrical current is running through the circuitry and that it can be worked on without damaging
the hardware or endangering service personnel. The OS must be restarted to return to the Working state. No
hardware context is retained. Except for the real-time clock, power consumption is zero.
G2/S5 Soft Off
A computer state where the computer consumes a minimal amount of power. No user mode or system mode
code is run. This state requires a large latency in order to return to the Working state. The system’s context will
not be preserved by the hardware. The system must be restarted to return to the Working state. It is not safe to
disassemble the machine in this state.
G1 Sleeping
A computer state where the computer consumes a small amount of power, user mode threads are not being
executed, and the system “appears” to be off (from an end user’s perspective, the display is off, and so on).
Latency for returning to the Working state varies on the wake environment selected prior to entry of this state
(for example, whether the system should answer phone calls). Work can be resumed without rebooting the OS
because large elements of system context are saved by the hardware and the rest by system software. It is not safe
to disassemble the machine in this state.
G0 Working
A computer state where the system dispatches user mode (application) threads and they execute. In this state,
peripheral devices (peripherals) are having their power state changed dynamically. The user can select, through
some UI, various performance/power characteristics of the system to have the software optimize for performance
or battery life. The system responds to external events in real time. It is not safe to disassemble the machine in
this state.
S4 Non-Volatile Sleep
A special global system state that allows system context to be saved and restored (relatively slowly) when power
is lost to the motherboard. If the system has been commanded to enter S4, the OS will write all system context
to a file on non-volatile storage media and leave appropriate context markers. The machine will then enter the S4
state. When the system leaves the Soft Off or Mechanical Off state, transitioning to Working (G0) and restarting
the OS, a restore from a NVS file can occur. This will only happen if a valid non-volatile sleep data set is found,
certain aspects of the configuration of the machine have not changed, and the user has not manually aborted the
restore. If all these conditions are met, as part of the OS restarting, it will reload the system context and activate
it. The net effect for the user is what looks like a resume from a Sleeping (G1) state (albeit slower). The aspects
of the machine configuration that must not change include, but are not limited to, disk layout and memory size.
It might be possible for the user to swap a PC Card or a Device Bay device, however.
2.2. Global System State Definitions
24
