Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
11.1.3.1 Temperature Change Notifications
Thermal zone-wide temperature sensor hardware that supports asynchronous temperature change notifications does
so using an SCI. The AML code that responds to this SCI must execute a Notify(thermal_zone, 0x80) statement to
inform OSPM that a meaningful change in temperature has occurred. Alternatively, devices with embedded temper-
ature sensors may signal their associated device drivers and the drivers may use an OS-specific interface to signal
OSPM’s thermal policy driver. A device driver may also invoke a device specific control method that executes a No-
tify(thermal_zone, 0x80) statement. When OSPM receives this thermal notification, it will evaluate the thermal zone’s
temperature interfaces to evaluate the current temperature values. OSPM will then compare the values to the corre-
sponding cooling policy trip point values (either zone-wide or device-specific). If the temperature has crossed over
any of the policy thresholds, then OSPM will actively or passively cool (or stop cooling) the system, or shut the system
down entirely.
Both the number and granularity of thermal zone trip points are OEM-specific. However, it is important to notice
that since OSPM can use heuristic knowledge to help cool the system, the more events OSPM receives the better
understanding it will have of the system’s thermal characteristic.
Fig. 11.2: Thermal Events
For example, the simple thermal zone illustrated above includes hardware that will generate a temperature change noti-
fication using a 5° Celsius granularity. All thresholds (_PSV, _AC1, _AC0, and _CRT) exist within the monitored range
and fall on 5 boundaries. This granularity is appropriate for this system as it provides sufficient opportunity for OSPM
to detect when a threshold is crossed as well as to understand the thermal zone’s basic characteristics (temperature
trends).
Note: The ACPI specification defines Kelvin as the standard unit for absolute temperature values. All thermal zone
objects must report temperatures in Kelvin when reporting absolute temperature values. All figures and examples in
this section of the specification use Celsius for reasons of clarity. ACPI allows Kelvin to be declared in precision of
1/10th of a degree (for example, 310.5).
Kelvin is expressed as follows:
θ/K= T/(degreesCelsius) + 273.2
11.1. Thermal Control
724
