Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
A.9.3 Network Device Wake Events
Network wake events are generally the result of either a change in the link status or the reception of a wake frame from
the network.
A.9.3.1 Link Status Events
Link status wake events are useful to indicate a change in the network’s availability, particularly when this change may
impact the level at which the system should re-enter the sleeping state. For example, a transition from “link off” to
“link on” may trigger the system to re-enter sleep at a higher level (for example, S2 versus S3) so that wake frames can
be detected. Conversely, a transition from “link on” to “link off” may trigger the system to re-enter sleep at a deeper
level (for example, S3 versus S2) since the network is not currently available. The network device should implement
an internal delay to avoid unnecessary transitions when the link status toggles on or off momentarily.
A.9.3.2 Wake Frame Events
Wake frame events are used to wake the system whenever meaningful data is presented to the system over the network.
Examples of meaningful data include the reception of a Magic PacketTM, a management request from a remote admin-
istrator, or simply network traffic directly targeted to the local system. In all of these cases the network device was
pre-programmed by the policy owner or other software with information on how to identify wake frames from other
network traffic. The details of how this information is passed between software and network device depend on the OS
and therefore are not described in this specification.
A.9.4 Network Device Minimum Power Capabilities
A network device conforming to this specification must support the D0 and D3 states. Support for the D1 and D2 states
is optional.
A.10 PC Card Controller Device Class
The requirements expressed in this section apply to PC Card controller devices and the PC Card slots.
Power management of PC Cards is not defined by this specification. PC Card power management is defined by the
relevant power management specification for the card’s device class (for example, network, modem, and so on), in
conjunction with the PC Card standard (for 16-bit cards) or the PCI Power Management Specification (for CardBus
cards).
A.10.1 PC Card Controller Device Power State Definitions
Table A-20: PC Card Controller Device Power State Definitions
A.10. PC Card Controller Device Class
1108
