Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Note that any ACPI platform may utilize GPIO-signaled and/or Interrupts-signaled ACPI events (i.e. they are not
limited to Hardware-reduced ACPI platforms).
5.6.10 Managing a Wake Event Using Device _PRW Objects
A device’s _PRW object provides the zero-based bit index into the general-purpose status register block to indicate
which general-purpose status bit from either GPE0_BLK or GPE1_BLK is used as the specific device’s wake mask.
Although the hardware must maintain individual device wake enable bits, the system can have multiple devices using
the same general-purpose event bit by using OEM-specific hardware to provide second-level status and enable bits. In
this case, the OEM AML code is responsible for the second-level enable and status bits.
A device’s _PRW object provides the zero-based index into the _AEI object of a GPIO controller device or zero-based
index into the _CRS object of a Generic Event Device (GED).
OSPM enables or disables the device wake function by enabling or disabling its corresponding event and by executing
its _PSW control method (which is used to take care of the second-level enables). When the event is asserted, OSPM
still executes the corresponding event control method that determines which device wakes are asserted and notifies the
corresponding device objects. The native OS driver is then notified that its device has asserted wake, for which the
driver powers on its device to service it.
If the system is in a sleeping state when the enabled event is asserted the hardware will transition the system into the
S0 state, if possible.
5.7 Predefined Objects
The AML interpreter of an ACPI compatible operating system supports the evaluation of a number of predefined
objects. The objects are considered “built in” to the AML interpreter on the target operating system.
A list of predefined object names are shown in the following table.
Table 5.246: Predefined Object Names
Name
Description
\_GL
Global Lock mutex
\_OS
Name of the operating system
\_OSI
Operating System Interface support
\_REV
Revision of the ACPI specification that is implemented
5.7.1 \_GL (Global Lock Mutex)
This predefined object is a Mutex object that behaves like a Mutex as defined in Section19.6.87, “Mutex (Declare Syn-
chronization/Mutex Object),” with the added behavior that acquiring this Mutex also acquires the shared environment
Global Lock defined in Section5.2.10.1, “Global Lock.” This allows Control Methods to explicitly synchronize with
the Global Lock if necessary.
5.7. Predefined Objects
353
