Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
4.8.2.2.1.1 Fixed Power Button
Fig. 4.8: Fixed Power Button Logic
The fixed hardware power button has its event programming model in the PM1x_EVT_BLK. This logic consists of a sin-
gle enable bit and sticky status bit. When the user presses the power button, the power button status bit (PWRBTN_STS)
is unconditionally set. If the power button enable bit (PWRBTN_EN) is set and the power button status bit is set
(PWRBTN_STS) due to a button press while the system is in the G0 state, then an SCI is generated. OSPM re-
sponds to the event by clearing the PWRBTN_STS bit. The power button logic provides debounce logic that sets the
PWRBTN_STS bit on the button press “edge.”
While the system is in the G1 or G2 global states (S1, S2, S3, S4 or S5 states), any further power button press after
the button press that transitioned the system into the sleeping state unconditionally sets the power button status bit and
wakes the system, regardless of the value of the power button enable bit. OSPM responds by clearing the power button
status bit and waking the system.
4.8.2.2.1.2 Control Method Power Button
The power button programming model can also use the generic hardware programming model. This allows the power
button to reside in any of the generic hardware address spaces (for example, the embedded controller) instead of fixed
space. If the power button is implemented using generic hardware, then the OEM needs to define the power button as
a device with an _HID object value of “PNP0C0C,” which then identifies this device as the power button to OSPM.
The AML event handler then generates a Notify command to notify OSPM that a power button event was generated.
While the system is in the working state, a power button press is a user request to transition the system into either the
sleeping (G1) or soft-off state (G2). In these cases, the power button event handler issues the Notify command with
the device specific code of 0x80. This indicates to OSPM to pass control to the power button driver (PNP0C0C) with
the knowledge that a transition out of the G0 state is being requested. Upon waking from a G1 sleeping state, the AML
event handler generates a notify command with the code of 0x2 to indicate it was responsible for waking the system.
The power button device needs to be declared as a device within the ACPI Namespace for the platform and only requires
an _HID. An example definition follows.
This example ASL code performs the following:
• Creates a device named “PWRB” and associates the Plug and Play identifier (through the _HID object) of
“PNP0C0C.”
• The Plug and Play identifier associates this device object with the power button driver.
• Creates an operational region for the control method power button’s programming model: System I/O space at
0x200.
• Fields that are not accessed are written as zeros. These status bits clear upon writing a 1 to their bit position,
therefore preserved would fail in this case.
• Creates a field within the operational region for the power button status bit (called PBP). In this case the power
button status bit is a child of the general-purpose event status bit 0. When this bit is set, it is the responsibility of
the ASL-code to clear it (OSPM clears the general-purpose status bits). The address of the status bit is 0x200.0
(bit 0 at address 0x200).
4.8. ACPI Register Model
70
