Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Present
State
Next State
Cause
D2/D3
D0
Any card in any slot needing to transition to state D0 due to a wake event or
because of system usage.
D0
D1
No card in any slot is in state D0.
D0
D2
No card in any slot is in state D0 or D1.
D0
D3
All cards in all slots are in state D3.
A.10.3 PC Card Controller Wake Events
A wake event is any event that would normally assert the controller’s status change interrupt (for example, card insertion,
card battery state change, card ReqAttn event, and so on) or ring-indicate signal.
A.10.4 PC Card Controller Minimum Power Capabilities
A PC Card controller device conforming to this specification must support the D0 and D3 states. Support for the D1
or D2 states is optional.
A.11 Storage Device Class
The requirements expressed in this section apply to ATA hard disks, floppy disks, ATAPI and SCSI CD-ROMs, and
the IDE channel.
A.11.1 Storage Device Power State Definitions
Table A-22: Hard Disk, CD-ROM and IDE/ATAPI Removable Storage Devices Power State Definitions
State
Status
Definition
D0
Required
Drive controller (for example, interface and control electronics) is functional.
Interface mode context (for example, communications timings) is programmed.
D1
Optional
Drive controller (for example, interface and control electronics) is functional. In-
terface mode context (for example, communications timings) is preserved. Drive
motor (for example, spindle) is stopped, with fast-start mode enabled, if avail-
able. Laser (if any) is off. Recommended latency to return to D0 is less than
5 seconds. Power consumption in D1 should be no more than 80% of power
consumed in D0. Note: For ATA devices, this state is invoked by the Standby
Immediate command.
D2
N/A
This state is not defined for storage devices.
D3
Required
Drive controller (for example, interface and control electronics) is not functional;
context is lost. Interface mode (for example, communications timings) is not
preserved. Drive motor (for example, spindle) is stopped. Laser (if any) is off.
Power consumption in D3 is no more than 10% of power consumed in D0. Note:
For ATA devices, this state is invoked by the “sleep” command.
Table A-23: Floppy Disk Devices Power State Definitions
A.11. Storage Device Class
1110
