Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
C1 Processor Power State
This processor power state has the lowest latency. The hardware latency in this state must be low enough that
the operating software does not consider the latency aspect of the state when deciding whether to use it. Aside
from putting the processor in a non-executing power state, this state has no other software-visible effects.
C2 Processor Power State
The C2 state offers improved power savings over the C1 state. The worst-case hardware latency for this state is
provided via the ACPI system firmware and the operating software can use this information to determine when
the C1 state should be used instead of the C2 state. Aside from putting the processor in a non-executing power
state, this state has no other software-visible effects.
C3 Processor Power State
The C3 state offers improved power savings over the C1 and C2 states. The worst-case hardware latency for this
state is provided via the ACPI system firmware and the operating software can use this information to determine
when the C2 state should be used instead of the C3 state. While in the C3 state, the processor’s caches main-
tain state but ignore any snoops. The operating software is responsible for ensuring that the caches maintain
coherency.
2.6 Device and Processor Performance State Definitions
Device and Processor performance states (Px states) are power consumption and capability states within the ac-
tive/executing states, C0 for processors and D0 for devices. The Px states are briefly defined below. For a more
detailed definition of each Px state from a processor perspective, see Processor Performance Control. For a more de-
tailed definition of each Px state from a device perspective see Device and Processor Performance States, and Appendix
A: Device Class Specifications.
P0 Performance State
While a device or processor is in this state, it uses its maximum performance capability and may consume
maximum power.
P1 Performance State
In this performance power state, the performance capability of a device or processor is limited below its maximum
and consumes less than maximum power.
Pn Performance State
In this performance state, the performance capability of a device or processor is at its minimum level and con-
sumes minimal power while remaining in an active state. State n is a maximum number and is processor or
device dependent. Processors and devices may define support for an arbitrary number of performance states not
to exceed 255.
2.6. Device and Processor Performance State Definitions
28
