Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
The Reference Performance Counter Register counts at a fixed rate any time the processor is active. It is not affected
by changes to Desired Performance, processor throttling, etc. If Reference Performance is supported, the Reference
Performance Counter accumulates at a rate corresponding to the Reference Performance level. Otherwise, the Reference
Performance Counter accumulates at the Nominal performance level.
Delivered Performance Counter Register:
Attribute:
Read
Size:
32 or 64 bits
The Delivered Performance Counter Register increments any time the processor is active, at a rate proportional to the
current performance level, taking into account changes to Desired Performance. When the processor is operating at
its reference performance level, the delivered performance counter must increment at the same rate as the reference
performance counter.
Counter Wraparound Time:
Optional Register or DWORD Attribute:
Read
Size:
32 or 64 bits
Units:
seconds
Counter Wraparound Time provides a means for the platform to specify a rollover time for the Reference/Delivered
performance counters. If greater than this time period elapses between OSPM querying the feedback counters, the
counters may wrap without OSPM being able to detect that they have done so.
If not implemented (or zero), the performance counters are assumed to never wrap during the lifetime of the platform.
8.4.6.1.3.2 Performance Limited Register
Attribute:
Read/Write
Size:
>=2 bit(s)
In the event that the platform constrains the delivered performance to less than the minimum performance or the desired
performance (or, less than the minimum of OSPM nominal performance and guaranteed performance level, if desired
performance is greater) due to an unpredictable event, the platform sets the performance limited indicator to a non-
zero value. This indicates to OSPM that an unpredictable event has limited processor performance, and the delivered
performance may be less than desired /minimum performance. If the platform does not support signaling performance
limited events, this register is permitted to always return zero when read.
Table 8.26: Performance Limited Register Status Bits
Bit
Name
Description
0
Desired_Excursion
Set when Delivered Performance has been constrained to less than Desired
Performance (or, less than the minimum of OSPM nominal performance and
the guaranteed performance level, if desired performance is greater). This
bit is not utilized when Autonomous Selection is enabled.
1
Minimum_Excursion
Set when Delivered Performance has been constrained to less than Minimum
Performance
2-n
Reserved
Reserved
Bits within the Performance Limited Register are sticky, and will remain non-zero until OSPM clears the bit. The
platform should only issue a Notify when Minimum Excursion transitions from 0 to 1 to avoid repeated events when
there is sustained or recurring limiting but OSPM has not cleared the previous indication.
8.4. Declaring Processors
583
