Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.244 – continued from previous page
Plug and Play ID
Description
PNP0A06
Generic Container Device. This device behaves exactly the same as the PNP0A05 device.
This was originally known as Extended I/O Bus. This ID should only be used for contain-
ers that do not produce resources for consumption by child devices. Any system resources
claimed by a PNP0A06 device’s _CRS object must be consumed by the container itself.
PNP0C09
Embedded Controller Device. A host embedded controller controlled through an ACPI-
aware driver.
PNP0C0A
Control Method Battery. A device that solely implements the ACPI Control Method Bat-
tery functions. A device that has some other primary function would use its normal device
ID. This ID is used when the devices primary function is that of a battery.
PNP0C0B
Fan. A device that causes cooling when “on” (D0 device state).
PNP0C0C
Power Button Device. A device controlled through an ACPI-aware driver that provides
power button functionality. This device is only needed if the power button is not supported
using the fixed register space.
PNP0C0D
Lid Device. A device controlled through an ACPI-aware driver that provides lid status func-
tionality. This device is only needed if the lid state is not supported using the fixed register
space.
PNP0C0E
Sleep Button Device. A device controlled through an ACPI-aware driver that provides
power button functionality. This device is optional.
PNP0C0F
PCI Interrupt Link Device. A device that allocates an interrupt connected to a PCI inter-
rupt pin. See Section 6.2.14 for more details.
PNP0C80
Memory Device. This device is a memory subsystem.
ACPI0001
SMBus 1.0 Host Controller. An SMBus host controller (SMB-HC) compatible with the
embedded controller-based SMB-HC interface (see Section 12.9), and implementing the
SMBus 1.0 Specification.
ACPI0002
Smart Battery Subsystem. The Smart battery Subsystem specified in Section10, “Power
Source Devices.”
ACPI0003
Power Source Device. The Power Source device specified in Section10, “Power Source
Devices.” This can represent either an AC Adapter (on mobile platforms) or a fixed Power
Supply.
ACPI0004
Module Device. This device is a container object that acts as a bus node in a namespace. A
Module Device without any of the _CRS, _PRS and _SRS methods behaves the same way
as the Generic Container Devices (PNP0A05 or PNP0A06). If the Module Device contains
a _CRS method, only these resources described in the _CRS are available for consumption
by its child devices. Also, the Module Device can support _PRS and _SRS methods if _CRS
is supported.
ACPI0005
SMBus 2.0 Host Controller. An SMBus host controller (SMB-HC compatible with the
embedded controller-based SMB-HC interface (see Section 12.9), and implementing the
SMBus 2.0 Specification.
ACPI0006
GPE Block Device. This device allows a system designer to describe GPE blocks beyond
the two that are described in the FADT.
ACPI0007
Processor Device. This device provides an alternative to declaring processors using the
processor ASL statement. See Section 8.4 for more details.
ACPI0008
Ambient Light Sensor Device. This device is an ambient light sensor. See Section 9.3.
ACPI0009
I/OxAPIC Device. This device is an I/O unit that complies with both the APIC and SAPIC
interrupt models.
ACPI000A
I/O APIC Device. This device is an I/O unit that complies with the APIC interrupt model.
ACPI000B
I/O SAPIC Device. This device is an I/O unit that complies with the SAPIC interrupt model.
ACPI000C
Processor Aggregator Device. This device provides a control point for all processors in the
platform. See Section 8.5.
ACPI000D
Power Meter Device. This device is a power meter. See Section 10.4.
continues on next page
5.6. ACPI Event Programming Model
342
