Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
ò Note
When wait for completion is necessary, the OS must poll bit zero (completion bit) of the status field of that PCC
channel (see Table 14.6 and the Generic Communications Channel Shared Memory Region.
5.2.31 Processor Properties Topology Table (PPTT)
This optional table is used to describe the topological structure of processors controlled by the OSPM, and their shared
resources, such as caches. The table can also describe additional information such as which nodes in the processor
topology constitute a physical package. The structure of PPTT is described in Table 5.188 .
Table 5.188: Processor Properties Topology Table
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Header
- Signature
4
0
‘PPTT’ Processor Properties Topology Table
- Length
4
4
Length of entire PPTT table in bytes
- Revision
1
8
3
- Checksum
1
9
The entire table must sum to zero.
- OEMID
6
10
OEM ID.
- OEM Table ID
8
16
For the PPTT, the table ID is the manufacturer model ID.
- OEM Revision
4
24
OEM revision of the PPTT for the supplied OEM Table
ID.
- Creator ID
4
28
Vendor ID of utility that created the table
- Creator Revision
4
32
Revision of utility that created the table
Body
• Processor topology struc-
ture[N]
—
36
List of processor topology structures
ò Note
Processor topology structures are described in the following sections.
5.2.31.1 Processor hierarchy node structure (Type 0)
The processor hierarchy node structure is described in Table 5.189 . This structure can be used to describe a single
processor or a group. To describe topological relationships, each processor hierarchy node structure can point to a
parent processor hierarchy node structure. This allows representing tree like topology structures. Multiple trees may
be described, covering for example multiple packages. For the root of a tree, the parent pointer should be 0.
If PPTT is present, one instance of this structure must be present for every individual processor presented through the
MADT interrupt controller structures. In addition, an individual entry must be present for every instance of a group
of processors that shares a common resource described in the PPTT. Resources are described in other PPTT structures
such as Type 1 cache structures. Each physical package in the system must also be represented by a processor node
structure.
Each processor node includes a list of resources that are private to that node. Resources are described in other PPTT
structures such as Type 1 cache structures. The processor node’s private resource list includes a reference to each of
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
266
