Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
3.2.2 Platform Power Management Characteristics
3.2.2.1 Mobile PC
Mobile PCs will continue to have aggressive power management functionality. Going to OSPM/ACPI will allow en-
hanced power savings techniques and more refined user policies.
Aspects of mobile PC power management in the ACPI specification are thermal management (see Section 3.10).
3.2.2.2 Desktop PCs
Power-managed desktops will be of two types, though the first type will migrate to the second over time.
Ordinary “Green PC”
Here, new appliance functions are not the issue. The machine is really only used for productivity computations.
At least initially, such machines can get by with very minimal function. In particular, they need the normal ACPI
timers and controls, but don’t need to support elaborate sleeping states, and so on. They, however, do need to
allow the OS to put as many of their devices/resources as possible into device standby and device off states,
as independently as possible (to allow for maximum compute speed with minimum power wasted on unused
devices). Such PCs will also need to support wake from the sleeping state by means of a timer, because this
allows administrators to force them to turn on just before people are to show up for work.
Home PC
Computers are moving into home environments where they are used in entertainment centers and to perform
tasks like answering the phone. A home PC needs all of the functionality of the ordinary green PC. In fact, it has
all of the ACPI power functionality of a laptop except for docking and lid events (and need not have any legacy
power management). Note that there is also a thermal management aspect to a home PC, as a home PC user
wants the system to run as quietly as possible, often in a thermally constrained environment.
3.2.2.3 Multiprocessor and Server PCs
Perhaps surprisingly, server machines often get the largest absolute power savings. Why? Because they have the largest
hardware configurations and because it’s not practical for somebody to hit the off switch when they leave at night.
Day Mode
In day mode, servers are power-managed much like a corporate ordinary green PC, staying in the Working state
all the time, but putting unused devices into low-power states whenever possible. Because servers can be very
large and have, for example, many disk spindles, power management can result in large savings. OSPM allows
careful tuning of when to do this, thus making it workable.
Night Mode
In night mode, servers look like home PCs. They sleep as deeply as they can and are still able to wake and answer
service requests coming in over the network, phone links, and so on, within specified latencies. So, for example, a
print server might go into deep sleep until it receives a print job at 3 A.M., at which point it wakes in perhaps less
than 30 seconds, prints the job, and then goes back to sleep. If the print request comes over the LAN, then this
scenario depends on an intelligent LAN adapter that can wake the system in response to an interesting received
packet.
3.2. Power States
32
