Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
...
n - state n is the lowest power P-state available
In order for the platform to dynamically indicate a change in the P-state depth limit, Notify events on the processor object
of type 0x80 will cause OSPM to reevaluate any _PDL object in the processor’s object list. This allows AML code
to notify OSPM when the number of supported performance states may have changed as a result of an asynchronous
event.\
8.4.6 Collaborative Processor Performance Control
Collaborative processor performance control defines an abstracted and flexible mechanism for OSPM to collaborate
with an entity in the platform to manage the performance of a logical processor. In this scheme, the platform entity
is responsible for creating and maintaining a performance definition that backs a continuous, abstract, unit-less per-
formance scale. During runtime, OSPM requests desired performance on this abstract scale and the platform entity
is responsible for translating the OSPM performance requests into actual hardware performance states. The platform
may also support the ability to autonomously select a performance level appropriate to the current workload. In this
case, OSPM conveys information to the platform that guides the platform’s performance level selection.
Prior processor performance controls (P-states and T-states) have described their effect on processor performance in
terms of processor frequency. While processor frequency is a rough approximation of the speed at which the processor
completes work, workload performance isn’t guaranteed to scale with frequency. Therefore, rather than prescribe a
specific metric for processor performance, Collaborative Processor Performance Control leaves the definition of the
exact performance metric to the platform. The platform may choose to use a single metric such as processor frequency,
or it may choose to blend multiple hardware metrics to create a synthetic measure of performance. In this way the
platform is free to deliver the OSPM requested performance level without necessarily delivering a specific processor
frequency. OSPM must make no assumption about the exact meaning of the performance values presented by the
platform, or how they may correlate to specific hardware metrics like processor frequency.
Platforms must use the same performance scale for all processors in the system. On platforms with heterogeneous
processors, the performance characteristics of all processors may not be identical. In this case, the platform must
synthesize a performance scale that adjusts for differences in processors, such that any two processors running the same
workload at the same performance level will complete in approximately the same time. The platform should expose
different capabilities for different classes of processors, so as to accurately reflect the performance characteristics of
each processor.
The control mechanisms are abstracted by the _CPC object method, which describes how to control and monitor pro-
cessor performance in a generic manner. The register methods may be implemented in the Platform Communications
Channel (PCC) interface (see Platform Communications Channel (PCC)). This provides sufficient flexibility that the
entity OSPM communicates with may be the processor itself, the platform chipset, or a separate entity (e.g., a BMC).
In order to provide backward compatibility with existing tools that report processor performance as frequencies, the
_CPC object can optionally provide processor frequency range values for use by the OS. If these frequency values
are provided, the restrictions on _CPC information usage still remain: the OSPM must make no assumption about the
exact meaning of the performance values presented by the platform, and all functional decisions and interaction with
the platform still happen using the abstract performance scale. The frequency values are only contained in the _CPC
object to allow the OS to present performance data in a simple frequency range, when frequency is not discoverable
from the platform via another mechanism.
8.4. Declaring Processors
568
