Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
• 0x00000004 - 0xFFFFFFFF - Reserved
10.4.3 _PMM (Power Meter Measurement)
This object returns the latest measurement reading from the power meter device. The value returned represents real
power (i.e. power factor is included in the value). In most cases this is a rolling average value that is computed by
the firmware over an averaging interval. On systems where this interval can be configured, the _PAI object should be
present under the power meter device (see Section 10.4.4).
Arguments
None
Return Value
An Integer is returned to represent the latest measurement reading from the power meter device. This value
should be in the unit specified in the power meter capabilities (typically in milliwatts), and is required to
be the RMS value if the power meter is measuring in AC. If an error occurs while obtaining the meter
reading or if the value is not available then an Integer with all bits set is returned.
10.4.4 _PAI (Power Averaging Interval)
This object sets the averaging interval used by the power meter. The averaging interval is the total time the power meter
will take instantaneous measurement samples for, before averaging them to produce the average power measurement as
returned by _PMM. If the platform changes the averaging interval independently from OSPM, the platform must issue
a Notify(power_meter, 0x84) to indicate the change to the OSPM. Upon receiving the notification, OSPM evaluates
the _GAI object to read the new averaging interval.
Arguments:(1)
Arg0 - An Integer that represents the desired value OSPM chose to be the power averaging interval, in
milliseconds. This value needs to be within the minimum and maximum averaging interval as specified
by _PMC. Otherwise, a failure result code is returned.
Return Value:
An Integer containing the status of the operation:
• 0x00000000 - Success
• 0x00000001 - Failure to set power averaging interval because it is out of range
• 0x00000002 - Failure to set power averaging interval due to hardware timeout
• 0x00000003 - Failure to set power averaging interval due to unknown hardware error
• 0x00000004 - 0xFFFFFFFF - Reserved
10.4.5 _GAI (Get Averaging Interval)
This object gets the averaging interval used by the power meter. The averaging interval is the total time the power meter
will take instantaneous measurement samples for, before averaging them to produce the average power measurement as
returned by _PMM. If the platform changes the averaging interval independently from OSPM, the platform must issue
a Notify(power_meter, 0x84) to indicate the change to the OSPM. Upon receiving the notification, OSPM evaluates
the _GAI object to read the new averaging interval.
Arguments:
None
10.4. Power Meters
715
