Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
to inject an error or set an attribute which is not supported by method _NIC, then that method shall return output buffer
with Status set to 2 (see Table 9.38).
The impact of the injected errors on fields reported by the method _NCH, NVDIMM State Flags of NVDIMM Re-
gion Mapping Structure (see Section 5.2.26.3) and on fields reported by NVDIMM device method _NBS (see Section
9.19.8.2) after a reset is implementation specific.
In Clear mode, the OSPM can request the platform to:
• clear one or more currently injected errors
• clear one or more “Overall Health Status Attributes” of currently injected error(s)
• The OSPM can request either or both the items mentioned above in a single call.
If platform can clear at least one error or one attribute, then it shall send NVDIMM Device Health Event Notification
(see Table 5.235) if supported. The OSPM can call _NCH (see Table 9.39) and the platform shall report any remaining
injected errors and the attributes in the return buffer.
If a platform can clear only a subset of OSPM requested errors and attributes, then the platform shall return an output
buffer with Status set to 6 (see Table 9.38) and Extended Status set to 1 (see:numref:nih-output-buffer). At that time,
the OSPM can call _NIG method (see Section 9.19.8.5) to get currently injected errors. If the OPSM requests to clear
error(s) which are not currently injected or requests to clear attribute(s) which are not currently set, then the platform
shall return Success. If the OSPM requests to clear an error or clear an attribute which is not supported by method
_NIC, then this method shall return output buffer with Status set to 2 (see Table 9.38).
One implementation of the health error injection is to emulate at firmware level without injecting any errors in real
hardware.
Arguments:
Table 9.42: _NIH Input Buffer
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Mode
1
0
0 - Reserved
1 - Inject error(s)
2 - Clear error(s)
3 - 255 - Reserved
Reserved
3
1
Reserved
continues on next page
9.19. NVDIMM Devices
676
