Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
ò Note
There are other mechanisms besides _HPX that provide platform-specific information to the OSPM PCI driver
component responsible for configuring PCI, PCI-X, or PCI Express Functions (e.g., _DSM Definitions for La-
tency Tolerance Reporting as defined in the PCI Firmware Specification). System firmware should only provide
platform-specific information via one of these mechanisms for any given register or feature (i.e., if Latency Toler-
ance Reporting information is provided via _DSM Definitions for Latency Tolerance Reporting then no information
related to Latency Tolerance Reporting should be provided by _HPX and vice versa). Failure to do so will result in
undefined behavior from the OSPM.
6.2.10 _VDM (Voltage Domain)
This optional object conveys the voltage domain to which a processor belongs. A processor voltage domain is a unique
identifier representing the voltage plane for a given set of processors.
OSPM assumes that two or more processors in the same voltage domain are connected to the same voltage plane.
Processors sharing the same voltage plane share the same input voltage level, and certain electrical limits such as
maximum current delivery. In multi-processor platforms that utilize multiple voltage domains, OSPM may use _VDM
as a hint for task placement optimization, such as:
• Running tasks with similar frequency requirements on processors sharing a common voltage plane may increase
power efficiency due to the shared voltage level across the processors of the plane.
• Running no tasks on one voltage plane may facilitate a reduction of voltage level on that plane, thereby reducing
leakage power.
• Distributing tasks evenly across processors on different voltage planes may reduce the chance that an electrical
limit such as maximum current delivery will lead to throttling of the tasks.
The _VDM object must be contained within a:
• Processor device (ACPI007).
• Processor Container (ACPI0010) or Device Module (ACPI0004), in which case the specified domain value is
inherited by all processors within the Processor Container or Device Module, but where any individual Processor
device may override its domain by including a _VDM object.
The _VDM object evaluates to an integer that identifies the processor as belonging to a specific voltage domain.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer (DWORD) containing a voltage domain identifier.
6.2.10.1 PCI Setting Record (Type 0)
The PCI setting record contains the setting type 0, the current revision 1 and the type/revision specific content: cache-
line size, latency timer, SERR enable, and PERR enable values.
Table 6.8: PCI Setting Record Content
Field
Object Type
Definition
Header
- Type
Integer
0x00: Type 0 (PCI) setting record.
- Revision
Integer
0x01: Revision 1, defining the set of fields below.
continues on next page
6.2. Device Configuration Objects
388
