CHAPTER
THIRTEEN
ACPI SYSTEM MANAGEMENT BUS INTERFACE SPECIFICATION
This section describes the System Management Bus (SMBus) generic address space and the use of this address space
to access SMBus devices from AML.
Unlike other address spaces, SMBus operation regions are inherently non-linear, where each offset within an SMBus
address space represents a variable-sized (from 0 to 32 bytes) field. Given this uniqueness, SMBus operation regions
include restrictions on their field definitions and require the use of an SMBus-specific data buffer for all transactions.
The SMBus interface presented in this section is intended for use with any hardware implementation compatible with
the SMBus specification. SMBus hardware is broadly classified as either non-EC-based or EC-based. EC-based SMBus
implementations comply with the standard register set defined in ACPI Embedded Controller Interface Specification.
Non-EC SMBus implementations can employ any hardware interface and are typically used for their cost savings when
SMBus security is not required. Non-EC-based SMBus implementations require the development of hardware specific
drivers for each OS implementation. See Declaring SMBus Host Controller Objects for more information.
Support of the SMBus generic address space by ACPI-compatible operating systems is optional. As such, the Smart
Battery System Implementer’s Forum (SBS-IF) has defined an SMBus interface based on a standard set of control
methods. This interface is documented in the SMBus Control Method Interface Specification at http://smbus.org/specs/
(or see http://uefi.org/acpi under the heading “Smart Battery System Components and SMBus Specification”).
13.1 SMBus Overview
SMBus is a two-wire interface based upon the I2C protocol. The SMBus is a low-speed bus that provides positive ad-
dressing for devices, as well as bus arbitration. For more information, refer to the complete set of SMBus specifications
published by the SBS-IF.
13.1.1 SMBus Slave Addresses
Slave addresses are specified using a 7-bit non-shifted notation. For example, the slave address of the Smart Battery
Selector device would be specified as 0x0A (1010b), not 0x14 (10100b) as might be found in other documents. These
two different forms of addresses result from the format in which addresses are transmitted on the SMBus.
During transmission over the physical SMBus, the slave address is formatted in an 8-bit block with bits 7-1 containing
the address and bit 0 containing the read/write bit. ASL code, on the other hand, presents the slave address simply as
a 7-bit value making it the responsibility of the OS (driver) to shift the value if needed. For example, the ASL value
would have to be shifted left 1 bit before being written to the SMB_ADDR register in the EC based SMBus as described
in Address Register, SMB_ADDR.
785
