Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.31: Processor Local SAPIC Structure
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Type
1
0
7 Processor Local SAPIC structure
Length
1
1
Length of the Local SAPIC Structure in bytes.
ACPI Processor ID
1
2
OSPM associates the Local SAPIC Structure with a processor
object declared in the namespace using the Processor state-
ment by matching the processor object’s ProcessorID value
with this field. The use of the Processor statement is depre-
cated. See the compatibility note in Processor Local x2APIC
Structure, and Processor (Declare Processor).
Local SAPIC ID
1
3
The processor’s local SAPIC ID
Local SAPIC EID
1
4
The processor’s local SAPIC EID
Reserved
3
5
Reserved (must be set to zero)
Flags
4
8
Local SAPIC flags. See Local APIC Flags for a description of
this field.
ACPI
Processor
UID
Value
4
12
OSPM associates the Local SAPIC Structure with a processor
object declared in the namespace using the Device statement,
when the _UID child object of the processor device evaluates
to a numeric value, by matching the numeric value with this
field.
ACPI
Processor
UID
String
>=1
16
OSPM associates the Local SAPIC Structure with a processor
object declared in the namespace using the Device statement,
when the _UID child object of the processor device evaluates
to a string, by matching the string with this field. This value is
stored as a null-terminated ASCII string.
5.2.12.11 Platform Interrupt Source Structure
The Platform Interrupt Source structure is used to communicate which I/O SAPIC interrupt inputs are connected to the
platform interrupt sources.
Platform Management Interrupts (PMIs) are used to invoke platform firmware to handle various events (similar to SMI
in IA-32). The Intel® ItaniumTM architecture permits the I/O SAPIC to send a vector value in the interrupt message
of the PMI type. This value is specified in the I/O SAPIC Vector field of the Platform Interrupt Sources Structure.
INIT messages cause processors to soft reset.
If a platform can generate an interrupt after correcting platform errors (e.g., single bit error correction), the interrupt
input line used to signal such corrected errors is specified by the Global System Interrupt field in the following table.
Some systems may restrict the retrieval of corrected platform error information to a specific processor. In such cases,
the firmware indicates the processor that can retrieve the corrected platform error information through the Processor
ID and EID fields in the structure below. OSPM is required to program the I/O SAPIC redirection table entries with
the Processor ID, EID values specified by the ACPI system firmware. On platforms where the retrieval of corrected
platform error information can be performed on any processor, the firmware indicates this capability by setting the
CPEI Processor Override flag in the Platform Interrupt Source Flags field of the structure below. If the CPEI Processor
Override Flag is set, OSPM uses the processor specified by Processor ID, and EID fields of the structure below only as
a target processor hint and the error retrieval can be performed on any processor in the system. However, firmware is
required to specify valid values in Processor ID, EID fields to ensure backward compatibility.
If the CPEI Processor Override flag is clear, OSPM may reject a ejection request for the processor that is targeted for
the corrected platform error interrupt. If the CPEI Processor Override flag is set, OSPM can retarget the corrected
platform error interrupt to a different processor when the target processor is ejected.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
141
