Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.152 – continued from previous page
Field
Byte
Length
Byte
Offset
Description
Device ID
2
8
Identifier for the NVDIMM, assigned by the module vendor.
This field shall be set to the value of the NVDIMM SPD Mod-
ule Product Identifier field (b) with byte 0 set to SPD byte 192
and byte 1 set to SPD byte 193.
Revision ID
2
10
Revision of the NVDIMM, assigned by the module vendor.
Byte 1 of this field is reserved. Byte 0 of this field shall be
set to the value of the NVDIMM SPD Module Revision Code
field (a) (i.e., SPD byte 349).
Subsystem Vendor ID
2
12
Vendor of the NVDIMM non-volatile memory subsystem con-
troller (c). This field shall be set to the value of the NVDIMM
SPD Non-Volatile Memory Subsystem Controller Vendor ID
field (b) with byte 0 set to SPD byte 194 and byte 1 set to SPD
byte 195.
Subsystem Device ID
2
14
Identifier for the NVDIMM non-volatile memory subsystem
controller, assigned by the non-volatile memory subsystem
controller vendor. This field shall be set to the value of the
NVDIMM SPD Non-Volatile Memory Subsystem Controller
Device ID field (b) with byte 0 set to SPD byte 196 and byte 1
set to SPD byte 197.
Subsystem Revision ID
2
16
Revision of the NVDIMM non-volatile memory subsystem
controller, assigned by the non-volatile memory subsystem
controller vendor. Byte 1 of this field is reserved.Byte 0 of
this field shall be set to the value of the NVDIMM SPD Non-
Volatile Memory Subsystem Controller Revision Code field b
(i.e. SPD byte 198).
Valid Fields
1
18
Valid bits for fields defined after the initial NFIT definition in
ACPI 6.0 within the initially defined lengths of 32 and 80
bytes.
Bits [7-1]: Reserved. Bit [0]: Manufacturing Location field
and Manufacturing Date field.
Bit [0] set to one indicates that the Manufacturing Location
field and Manufacturing Date field are valid.
Bit [0] set to zero indicates that the Manufacturing Location
field and Manufacturing Date field are not valid and should
be ignored. Systems compliant with this specification shall
set Bit [0] to one. Systems that were compliant with ACPI 6.0
had Bit [0] set to zero, meaning they did not have
Manufacturing Location and Manufacturing Date fields.
Manufacturing Location
1
19
Manufacturing location for the NVDIMM, assigned by the
module vendor.
This field shall be set to the value of the
NVDIMM SPD Module Manufacturing Location field a (SPD
byte 322). Validity of this field is indicated in Valid Fields Bit
[0].
continues on next page
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
235
