Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
1.9.2 Programming Models
Chapters 4 and 5 define the ACPI hardware and software programming models. This part of the specification is pri-
marily for system designers, developers, and project managers.
All of the implementation-oriented, reference, and platform example Chapters of the specification that follow (all the
rest of the Chapters of the specification) are based on the models defined in Chapters 4 and 5. These Chapters are the
heart of the ACPI specification. There are extensive cross-references between the two Chapters.
Chapter 4: ACPI Hardware Specification
Defines a set of hardware interfaces that meet the goals of this specification.
Chapter 5: ACPI Software Programming Model
Defines a set of software interfaces that meet the goals of this specification.
1.9.3 Implementation Details
The third part of the specification defines the implementation details necessary to actually build components that work
on an ACPI-compatible platform. This part of the specification is primarily for developers.
Chapter 6: Configuration
Defines the reserved Plug and Play objects used to configure and assign resources to devices, and share resources
and the reserved objects used to track device insertion and removal. Also defines the format of ACPI-compatible
resource descriptors.
Chapter 7: Power and Performance Management
Defines the reserved device power-management objects and the reserved-system power-management objects.
Chapter 8: Processor Configuration and Control
Defines how the OS manages the processors’ power consumption and other controls while the system is in the
working state.
Chapter 9: ACPI-Specific Device Objects
Lists the integrated devices that need support for some device-specific ACPI controls, along with the device-
specific ACPI controls that can be provided. Most device objects are controlled through generic objects and
control methods and have generic device IDs; this Chapter discusses the exceptions.
Chapter 10: Power Source Devices
Defines the reserved battery device and AC adapter objects.
Chapter 11: Thermal Management
Defines the reserved thermal management objects.
Chapter 12: ACPI Embedded Controller Interface Specification
Defines the interfaces between an ACPI-compatible OS and an embedded controller.
Chapter 13: ACPI System Management Bus Interface Specification
Defines the interfaces between an ACPI-compatible OS and a System Management Bus (SMBus) host controller.
Chapter 14: Platform Communications Channel
Explains the generic mechanism for OSPM to communicate with an entity in the platform defines a new address
space type.
Chapter 15: System Address Map Interfaces
Explains the special INT 15 call for use in ISA/EISA/PCI bus-based systems. This call supplies the OS with a
clean memory map indicating address ranges that are reserved and ranges that are available on the motherboard.
UEFI-based memory address map reporting interfaces are also described.
1.9. Document Organization
13
