Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
19.3.5.3 Implicit Data Type Conversions
Automatic or Implicit type conversions can take place at two different times during the execution of an ASL operator.
First, it may be necessary to convert one or more of the source operands to the data type(s) expected by the ASL
operator. Second, the result of the operation may require conversion before it is stored into the destination. (Many of
the ASL operators can store their result optionally into an object specified by the last parameter. In these operators, if the
destination is specified, the action is exactly as if a Store operator had been used to place the result in the destination.)
Such data conversions are performed by an AML interpreter during execution of AML code and are known collec-
tively as Implicit Operand Conversions. As described briefly above, there are two different types of implicit operand
conversion:
1. Conversion of a source operand from a mismatched data type to the correct data type required by an ASL operator,
called Implicit Source Conversion. This conversion occurs when a source operand must be converted to the
operand type expected by the operator. Any or all of the source operands may be converted in this manner before
the execution of the ASL operator can proceed.
2. Conversion of the result of an operation to the existing type of a target operand before it is stored into the target
operand, called Implicit Result Conversion. This conversion occurs when the target is a fixed type such as a
named object or a field. When storing to a method Local or Arg, no conversion is performed or required because
these data types are of variable type (the store simply overwrites any existing object and the existing type).
The following ASL operator is provided to copy and transfer objects with an implicit result conversion to the existing
type of the target object:
Store
Store a copy of the operand object to the target name. Implicit result conversion is performed if the target
name is of a fixed data type (see above). However, Stores to method locals and arguments do not perform
implicit conversion and are therefore the same as using CopyObject.
19.3.5.4 Implicit Source Operand Conversion
During the execution of an ASL operator, each source operand is processed by the AML interpreter as follows:
• If the operand is of the type expected by the operator, no conversion is necessary.
• If the operand type is incorrect, attempt to convert it to the proper type.
• For the Concatenate operator and logical operators (LEqual, LGreater, LGreaterEqual, LLess, LLessEqual, and
LNotEqual), the data type of the first operand dictates the required type of the second operand, and for Concate-
nate only, the type of the result object. (The second operator is implicitly converted, if necessary, to match the
type of the first operand.)
• If conversion is impossible, abort the running control method and issue a fatal error.
An implicit source conversion will be attempted anytime a source operand contains a data type that is different that the
type expected by the operator. For example:
Store ("5678", Local1)
Add (0x1234, Local1, BUF1)
In the Add statement above, Local1 contains a String object and must undergo conversion to an Integer object before
the Add operation can proceed.
In some cases, the operator may take more than one type of operand (such as Integer and String). In this case, depending
on the type of the operand, the highest priority conversion is applied. The table below describes the source operand
conversions available. For example:
19.3. ASL Concepts
935
