Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
• Processor machine check exception (for example, MC#)
• Chipset error message signals (for example, SCI, SMI, SERR#, MCERR#)
• I/O bus error reporting (for example, PCI Express root port error interrupt)
• I/O device errors
A single hardware error source might handle aggregate error reporting for more than one type of hardware error condi-
tion. For example, a processor’s machine check exception typically reports processor errors, cache and memory errors,
and system bus errors.
A hardware error source is typically represented by the following:
• One or more hardware error status registers.
• One or more hardware error configuration or control registers.
• A signaling mechanism to alert OSPM to the existence of an error condition.
In some situations, there is not an explicit signaling mechanism and OSPM must poll the error status registers to test for
an error condition. However, polling can only be used for corrected error conditions since uncorrected errors require
immediate attention by OSPM.
18.2 Relationship between OSPM and System Firmware
Both OSPM and system firmware play important roles in hardware error handling. APEI improves the methods by
which both of these can contribute to the task of hardware error handling in a complementary fashion. APEI allows the
hardware platform vendor to determine whether the firmware or OSPM will own key hardware error resources. APEI
also allows the firmware to pass control of hardware error resources to OSPM when appropriate.
18.3 Error Source Discovery
Platforms enumerate error sources to OSPM via a set of tables that describe the error sources. OSPM may also support
non-ACPI enumerated error sources such as: Machine Check Exception, Corrected Machine Check, NMI, and PCI
Express AER. Non-ACPI error sources are not described by this specification.
During initialization, OSPM examines the tables and uses this information to establish the necessary error handlers
that are responsible for processing error notifications from the platform.
18.3.1 Boot Error Source
Under normal circumstances, when a hardware error occurs, the error handler receives control and processes the error.
This gives OSPM a chance to process the error condition, report it, and optionally attempt recovery. In some cases, the
system is unable to process an error. For example, system firmware or a management controller may choose to reset
the system or the system might experience an uncontrolled crash or reset.
The boot error source is used to report unhandled errors that occurred in a previous boot. This mechanism is described
in the BERT table. The boot error source is reported as a ‘one-time polled’ type error source. OSPM queries the boot
error source during boot for any existing boot error records. The platform will report the error condition to OSPM via
a Common Platform Error Record (CPER) compliant error record. The CPER format is described in the appendices
of the UEFI Specification.
The following table describes the format for the Boot Error Record Table (BERT).
18.2. Relationship between OSPM and System Firmware
845
