Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 5.2 – continued from previous page
Address Space
Format
0x0A-PCC
PCC is used to locate a platform communication channel resource, described by a PCC
Subspace Structure entry in the PCCT.
The format for the Address field is the index into the PCCT.
0x7F-Functional
Fixed Hardware
Use of GAS fields other than Address_Space_ID is specified by the CPU manufacturer. The
use of functional fixed hardware carries with it a reliance on OS specific software that must
be considered. OEMs should consult OS vendors to ensure that specific functional fixed
hardware interfaces are supported by specific operating systems.
5.2.4 Universally Unique Identifiers (UUIDs)
UUIDs (Universally Unique IDentifiers), also known as GUIDs (Globally Unique IDentifiers) are 128 bit long values
that extremely likely to be different from all other UUIDs generated until 3400 A.D. UUIDs are used to distinguish
between callers of ASL methods, such as _DSM and _OSC. UUIDs are also used to distinguish individual entries in
the MISC table.
The format of both the binary and string representations of UUIDs, along with an algorithm to generate them, is
specified in ISO/IEC 11578:1996 Information technology - Open Systems Interconnection - Remote Procedure Call
(RPC). This can also be found as part of the DCE 1.1: Remote Procedure Call technical standard, and in the Wikipedia
entry for UUIDs.
5.2.5 Root System Description Pointer (RSDP)
During OS initialization, OSPM must obtain the Root System Description Pointer (RSDP) structure from the platform.
When OSPM locates the Root System Description Pointer (RSDP) structure, it then locates the Root System Description
Table (RSDT) or the Extended Root System Description Table (XSDT) using the physical system address supplied in
the RSDP.
5.2.5.1 Finding the RSDP on IA-PC Systems
OSPM finds the Root System Description Pointer (RSDP) structure by searching physical memory ranges on 16-byte
boundaries for a valid Root System Description Pointer structure signature and checksum match as follows:
• The first 1 KB of the Extended BIOS Data Area (EBDA). For EISA or MCA systems, the EBDA can be found
in the two-byte location 40:0Eh on the BIOS data area.
• The BIOS read-only memory space between 0E0000h and 0FFFFFh.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
103
