Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
AcquireGlobalLock:
mov ecx, GlobalLock
; ecx = Address of Global Lock in FACS
acq10:
mov eax, [ecx]
; Get current value of Global Lock
mov edx, eax
and edx, not 1
; Clear pending bit
bts edx, 1
; Check and set owner bit
adc edx, 0
; If owned, set pending bit
lock cmpxchg dword ptr[ecx], edx
; Attempt to set new value
jnz short acq10
; If not set, try again
cmp dl, 3
; Was it acquired or marked pending?
sbb eax, eax
; acquired = -1, pending = 0
ret
The following code sequence is used by OSPM and the firmware to release ownership of the Global Lock. If non-zero
is returned, the caller must raise the appropriate event to the other environment to signal that the Global Lock is now
free. Depending on the environment, this signaling is done by setting the either the GBL_RLS or BIOS_RLS within
their respective hardware register spaces. This signal only occurs when the other environment attempted to acquire
ownership while the lock was owned.
ReleaseGlobalLock:
mov ecx, GlobalLock
; ecx = Address of Global Lock in FACS
rel10: mov eax, [ecx]
; Get current value of Global Lock
mov edx, eax
and edx, not 03h
; Clear owner and pending field
lock cmpxchg dword ptr[ecx], edx
; Attempt to set it
jnz short rel10
; If not set, try again
and eax, 1
; Was pending set?
; if one is returned (we were pending) the caller must signal that the
; lock has been released using either GBL_RLS or BIOS_RLS as appropriate
ret
Although using the Global Lock allows various hardware resources to be shared, it is important to notice that its
usage when there is ownership contention could entail a significant amount of system overhead as well as waits of an
indeterminate amount of time to acquire ownership of the Global Lock. For this reason, implementations should try to
design the hardware to keep the required usage of the Global Lock to a minimum.
The Global Lock is required whenever a logical register in the hardware is shared. For example, if bit 0 is used by
ACPI (OSPM) and bit 1 of the same register is used by SMI, then access to that register needs to be protected under
the Global Lock, ensuring that the register’s contents do not change from underneath one environment while the other
is making changes to it. Similarly if the entire register is shared, as the case might be for the embedded controller
interface, access to the register needs to be protected under the Global Lock.
5.2. ACPI System Description Tables
130
