Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Return Value:
An Integer containing the currently configured power averaging interval,in milliseconds. If an error occurs
while obtaining the averaging interval or if the value is not available then an Integer with all bits set is
returned.
10.4.6 _SHL (Set Hardware Limit)
This object sets the hardware limit enforced by the power meter. This limit, if supported, will be enforced by the
circuitry on the platform hardware, to the best of its effort. This value is typically also configurable via other out-of-
band management mechanism. When the enforcement happens, the platform should send a Notify(power_meter, 0x83)
to the OSPM.
Arguments:(1)
Arg0 - An Integer value that represent the desired value OSPM chose as the hardware enforced limit of
this power meter, in the unit specified in _PMC. This value needs to be within the minimum and maximum
hardware limit as specified by _PMC. Otherwise, a failure result code is returned.
Return Value:
An Integer containing the status of the operation:
- 0x00000000 - Success
- 0x00000001 - Failure to set hardware limit because it is out of range
- 0x00000002 - Failure to set hardware limit due to the hardware timeout
- 0x00000003 - Failure to set hardware limit due to unknown hardware error
- 0x00000004 - 0xFFFFFFFF - Reserved
10.4.7 _GHL (Get Hardware Limit)
This object gets the hardware limit enforced by the power meter. This limit can be changed by either the OSPM or by
the platform through some out-of-band mechanism. When this value is changed, a Notify(power_meter, 0x82) should
be sent to notify the OSPM to re-read the hardware limit. If an error occurs while obtaining the hardware limit or if
the value is not available then an Integer with all bits set is returned.
Arguments:
None
Return Value:
An Integer is returned to represent the currently configured hardware enforced limit of the power meter, in
the unit specified in _PMC.
10.4.8 _PMD (Power Metered Devices)
This object evaluates to a package of device names. Each name corresponds to a device in the ACPI namespace that is
being measured by the power meter device. The measurement reported by the power meter is roughly correspondent
to the total power draw of all the devices returned.
If this control method is present, the package needs to contain at least 1 device. On a system that supports power
metering, a system power meter that measures the power draw of the entire system should always be present and have
a _PMD that contains \_SB as its sole entry.
Arguments:
10.4. Power Meters
716
