Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
The platform must implement either both the Minimum Performance and Maximum Performance registers or neither
register. If neither register is implemented and Autonomous Selection is disabled, the platform must always deliver the
desired performance.
8.4.6.1.2.2 Minimum Performance Register
Optional Attribute:
Read/Write
Size:
8-32 bits
The Minimum Performance Register allows OSPM to convey the minimum performance level at which the platform
may run. Minimum performance may be set to any performance value in the range [Lowest Performance, Highest Per-
formance], inclusive but must be set to a value that is less than or equal to that specified by the Maximum Performance
Register.
In the presence of a physical constraint, for example a thermal excursion, the platform may not be able to successfully
maintain minimum performance in accordance with that set via the Minimum Performance Register. In this case, the
platform issues a Notify event of type 0x84 to the processor device object and sets the Minimum_Excursion bit within
the Performance Limited Register.
The platform must implement either both the Minimum Performance and Maximum Performance registers or neither
register. If neither register is implemented and Autonomous Selection is disabled, the platform must always deliver the
desired performance.
8.4.6.1.2.3 Desired Performance Register
Optional Attribute: Write
Size:
8-32 bits
When Autonomous Selection is disabled, the Desired Performance Register is required and conveys the performance
level OSPM is requesting from the platform. Desired performance may be set to any performance value in the range
[Minimum Performance, Maximum Performance], inclusive. Desired performance may take one of two meanings,
depending on whether the desired performance is above or below the minimum of the guaranteed performance level
and the OSPM nominal performance level.
• Below this level, desired performance expresses the average performance level the platform must provide subject
to the Performance Reduction Tolerance.
• Above this level, the platform must provide the minimum of the guaranteed performance level. The platform
should attempt to provide up to the desired performance level, if current operating conditions allow for it, but it
is not required to do so
When Autonomous Selection is enabled, it is not necessary for OSPM to assess processor workload performance
demand and convey a corresponding performance delivery request to the platform via the Desired Register. If the
Desired Performance Register exists, OSPM may provide an explicit performance requirement hint to the platform
by writing a non-zero value. In this case, the delivered performance is not bounded by the Performance Reduction
Tolerance Register, however, OSPM can influence the delivered performance by writing appropriate values to the
Energy Performance Preference Register. Writing a zero value to the Desired Performance Register or the non-existence
of the Desired Performance Register causes the platform to autonomously select a performance level appropriate to the
current workload.
ò Note
8.4. Declaring Processors
577
