Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
A.5.1 COM Port Power State Definitions
Table A-5: COM Port Device Power State Definitions
State
Status
Definition
D0
Required
Line drivers are on. UART context is preserved.
D1
N/A
This state is not defined for COM Ports. Use the D3 state instead.
D2
N/A
This state is not defined for COM Ports. Use the D3 state instead.
D3
Required
Line drivers are off (unpowered; outputs isolated from devices attached to the port).
UART context is lost. Latency to return to D0 is less than 1 second.
A.5.2 COM Power Power Management Policy
Table A-6: COM Port Device Power Management Policy
Present
State
Next
State
Cause
D3
D0
Power-on reset COM port opened by an application
D0
D3
COM port closed System enters sleeping state while wake is disabled on this device. Sys-
tem enters sleeping state while wake is enabled on this device and the device is capable of
generating wake to the system from state D3.
A.5.3 COM Port Wake Events
If the COM port is capable of generating wake events, asserting the “ring indicator” line (V.24 circuit 125) will cause
the COM port to assert a wake event. There are two common mechanisms that may be employed (either one or both)
for performing machine wake using COM ports.
The first provides a solution that is capable of waking the PC whether the UART is powered (D0) or not (D3). Here, the
“ring indicator” line (from V.24 circuit 125) is commonly connected directly to the system wake device in addition to
being connected to the UART. While this implementation is normative for COM ports located on system motherboards
(see the ACPI specification), it could also be done by add-in cards with COM ports that reside on buses supporting
system wake from devices in D3 (for example, PME# signal on PCI).
The second mechanism requires that the UART be powered (D0) to use the UART’s interrupt output pin to generate the
wake event instead. When using this method, the OS COM port policy owner or power management control methods are
expected to configure the UART. Although any UART interrupt source (for example, ‘data ready’) could theoretically
be used to wake the system, these methods are beyond the scope of this document.
A.5.4 COM Port Minimum Power Capabilities
A COM port conforming to this specification must support the D0 and D3 states.
A.5. COM Port Device Class
1096
