Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
9.11 Memory Devices
Memory devices allow a platform to convey dynamic properties of memory to OSPM, and are required when a plat-
form supports the addition or removal of memory while the system is active, or when the platform supports memory
bandwidth monitoring and reporting (see Section 9.11.4). Memory devices are assigned a PNPID of PNP0C80.
For the active memory additional and removal use-case, the memory device object is only required if there is no
other native mechanism for performing the hot-add or hot-remove operations. For example, hot-plug of CXL-attached
memory employs CXL-defined mechanisms and, as such, a memory device object is not required for such memory.
Memory devices may describe exactly the same physical memory that the System Address Map interfaces describe
(see Section 15). They do not describe how that memory is, or has been, used. If a region of physical memory is
marked in the System Address Map interface as AddressRangeReserved or AddressRangeNVS and it is also described
in a memory device, then it is the responsibility of the OS to guarantee that the memory device is never disabled.
It is not necessary to describe all memory in the system with memory devices if there is some memory in the system
that is static in nature. If, for instance, the memory that is used for the first 16 MB of system RAM cannot be ejected,
inserted, or disabled, that memory may only be represented by the System Address Map interfaces. But if memory can
be ejected, inserted, or disabled, or if the platform supports memory bandwidth monitoring and reporting, the memory
must be represented by a memory device.
9.11.1 Hot-plug Indication
If the memory device is created for the purpose of describing hot-pluggable memory, it must always carry the _STA,
as well as either _EJ0 or _DIS methods, or both. OS can use the presence of these methods as an indication that the
memory range is hot-pluggable. In addition, there must be a matching memory affinity structure in the SRAT table
that has the Hot-pluggable flag set. See Section 5.2.16.2 for further details on this flag. The expression for confirming
hot-pluggable property is as follows:
Is Hot-pluggable = _STA && (_EJ0 || _DIS);
9.11.2 Address Decoding
Memory devices must provide a _CRS object that describes the physical address space that the memory decodes. If
the memory can decode alternative ranges in physical address space, the devices may also provide _PRS, _SRS and
_DIS objects. Other device objects may also apply if the device can be ejected.
The physical address space described by _CRS object must be described using the Extended Address Space Resource
Descriptor macro. The TypeSpecificAttributes (_ATT) field of the descriptor might then be used to set the EFI memory
attributes that apply to the memory. In the case of memory hot-add, the OS can then use the _ATT field information to
understand how the memory must be used after it has been added. This enables hot-plug support for specific-purpose
memory (SPM) and persistent memory. Since the _ATT field is optional, the OS must consider its absence to mean
that the memory is by default cacheable memory with EFI attributes set to EFI_MEMORY_WB.
The default UEFI memory type for memory described by memory devices is AddressRangeMemory. Please see the
UEFI specification for more information on this memory type.
Hot-pluggable persistent memory ranges must not be described using this mechanism. They should instead be described
using the NFIT table and related methods specific to persistent memory.
9.11. Memory Devices
616
