Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Notice that for the machine to transition directly from the Soft Off or Sleeping states to S4, the system context must
be written to non-volatile storage by the hardware; entering the Working state first so that the OS or platform runtime
firmware can save the system context takes too long from the user’s point of view. The transition from Mechanical Off
to S4 is likely to be done when the user is not there to see it.
Because the S4 state relies only on non-volatile storage, a machine can save its system context for an arbitrary period
of time (on the order of many years).
Table 2.1: Summary of Global Power States
Global
system
state
Software
runs
Latency
Power con-
sumption
OS restart
required
Safe
to
dis-
assemble
computer
Exit
state
electroni-
cally
G0 Working
Yes
0
Large
No
No
Yes
G1 Sleeping
No
>0,
varies
with
sleep
state
Smaller
No
No
Yes
G2/S5 Soft Off
No
Long
Very near 0
Yes
No
Yes
G3 Mechanical Off
No
Long
RTC battery
Yes
Yes
No
Notice that the entries for G2/S5 and G3 in the Latency column of the above table are “Long.” This implies that a
platform designed to give the user the appearance of “instant-on,” similar to a home appliance device, will use the G0
and G1 states almost exclusively (the G3 state may be used for moving the machine or repairing it).
2.3 Device Power State Definitions
Device power states are states of particular devices; as such, they are generally not visible to the user. For example,
some devices may be in the Off state even though the system as a whole is in the Working state.
Device states apply to any device on any bus. They are generally defined in terms of four principal criteria:
• Power consumption-How much power the device uses.
• Device context–How much of the context of the device is retained by the hardware. The OS is responsible for
restoring any lost device context (this may be done by resetting the device).
• Device driver–What the device driver must do to restore the device to full on.
• Restore time–How long it takes to restore the device to full on.
The device power states are defined below, although very generically. Many devices do not have all four power states
defined. Devices may be capable of several different low-power modes, but if there is no user-perceptible difference
between the modes, only the lowest power mode will be used. The Device Class Power Management Specifications,
included in Appendix A of this specification, describe which of these power states are defined for a given type (class)
of device and define the specific details of each power state for that device class. For a list of the available Device Class
Power Management Specifications, see Appendix A: Device Class Specifications.
D3 (Off)
Power has been fully removed from the device. Also referred to as D3cold in this and other specs. All device
context is lost when this state is entered, so the OS software will reinitialize the device when powering it back
on. Since all device context and power are lost, devices in this state do not decode their address lines, and cannot
be enumerated by software. Devices in this state have the longest restore times.
D3hot
The meaning of the D3hot State is defined by each device class. In general, D3hot is expected to save as much
power as possible without affecting PNP Enumeration. Devices in D3hot must have enough power to remain
2.3. Device Power State Definitions
25
