Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
• Traditional modem (DAA, DSP, and controller in hardware)
• Controller-less design (DAA and DSP in hardware)
• “Soft modem” design (DAA and CODEC only in hardware)
The hardware components of the modem shall be controlled by the relevant bus commands, where applicable (USB,
PCI, CardBus). The software components are dependent on the power state of the CPU.
A.8.1.1 Traditional Connections
In older methods (COM, LPT, ISA) the modem is controlled primarily by serialized ASCII command strings (for
example, V.25ter) and traditional V.24 (RS-232) out-of-band leads. In these legacy devices, there are no common
means for power management other than the power switch for the device, or the entire system unit.
An external modem connected to a COM port or LPT port typically has its own power supply. An LPT port modem
might run from the current on the LPT port +5V supply. For COM or LPT port modems, power is typically controlled
by a user switch.
The most common modem type is an ISA card with an embedded COM port. From a software standpoint, they are
logically identical to external modems, but the modems are powered by the PC system unit. Power is drawn from the
ISA bus without independent power switching.
A.8.1.2 Power-Managed Connections
PCMCIA, PCCARD and CardBus slots are powered and power-managed by the system, using means defined in the
relevant bus specifications. For PCMCIA and PCCARD devices, only D0 and D3 states are available, via Socket
Services in the OS and/or ACPI system firmware. CardBus adds intermediate states, using the same mechanisms
defined for PCI Bus.
PCI bus slots are powered and power-managed by the system, using means defined in the PCI specification.
USB devices may be powered by the USB itself (100mA or 500mA), or have their own external power supply. All USB
devices are power-managed by the USB bus master, using means defined in the USB specification.
A.8.1.3 Motherboard Modems
A modem embedded in the motherboard is powered by controls on the motherboard. It should be power-managed by
using control methods exposed via ACPI system firmware tables.
A.8.2 Modem Device Power State Definitions
Table A-16: Modem Device Power State Definitions
State
Status
Definition
D0
Required
Phone interface is on (may be on or off hook) Speaker is on Controller Context
is preserved
D1
N/A
Not defined (do not use)
D2
Optional
Phone interface is not powered by the host (on hook) Speaker is off Controller
context is preserved 2 seconds maximum restore time
D3
Required
Phone interface is not powered by host (on hook) Speaker is off Controller con-
text may be lost 5 seconds maximum restore time
A.8. Modem Device Class
1105
