Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 8.11: OSPM performance controls
If OSPM has selected both desired performance level and maximum performance level less than guaranteed perfor-
mance, the platform must round up if rounding up does not violate the maximum performance level. Otherwise, round
down. OSPM must tolerate the platform rounding down if it chooses to set the maximum performance level less than
guaranteed performance.This approach favors performance, except in the case where performance has been limited due
to a platform or OSPM constraint.
When Autonomous Selection is enabled, OSPM limits the processor’s performance selection by writing appropriate
constraining values to the Minimum and Maximum Performance registers. Setting Minimum and Maximum to the
same value effectively disables Autonomous selection.
Note: When processors are within the same dependency domain, Maximum performance may only be actually limited
when allowed by hardware coordination.
8.4.6.1.2.1 Maximum Performance Register
Optional Attribute:
Read/Write
Size:
8-32 bits
Maximum Performance Register conveys the maximum performance level at which the platform may run. Maximum
performance may be set to any performance value in the range [Lowest Performance, Highest Performance], inclusive.
The value written to the Maximum Performance Register conveys a request to limit maximum performance for the
purpose of energy efficiency or thermal control and the platform limits its performance accordingly as possible. How-
ever, the platform may exceed the requested limit in the event it is necessitated by internal package optimization. For
Example, hardware coordination among multiple logical processors with interdependencies.
OSPM’s use of this register to limit performance for the purpose of thermal control must comprehend multiple logical
processors with interdependencies. i.e. the same value must be written to all processors within a domain to achieve the
desired result.
8.4. Declaring Processors
576
