Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Table 8.25 – continued from previous page
Resource Type
Resource Type ID
Description
L2 Cache
0x00000003
This resource type indicates that the register controls this
processor’s priority for L2 cache allocation. Processors
with higher priority should be allocated more L2 cache
relative to processors with lower priority.
L3 Cache
0x00000004
This resource type indicates that the register controls this
processor’s priority for L3 cache allocation. Processors
with higher priority should be allocated more L3 cache
relative to processors with lower priority.
Memory Bandwidth
0x00000005
This resource type indicates that the register controls this
processor’s priority for memory bandwidth allocation.
Processors with higher priority should be allocated more
memory bandwidth relative to processors with lower pri-
ority.
8.4.6.1.2.9 Priority Register
Optional
Attribute:
Write
Size:
8-32 bits
The priority value of a processor determines its priority in being allocated the shared system resources described by
the Controlled Resources element. OSPM uses this register to inform the platform what order OSPM would like shared
resources allocated to each processor.
The platform should interpret a smaller value in this register as having a higher priority than processors with a higher
value in this register. For example, a processor with a priority value of 0 would have a higher priority than a processor
with a priority value of 1. All processors with the same priority value should be allocated resources evenly.
When a Resource Priority Register is enabled, either when the platform is initialized if EnableRegister is not provided
or when OSPM writes the EnableValue into the EnableRegister, all processors should be initialized as having an equal
priority value of 0. Meaning all processors should be initialized as running the highest available priority group.
Valid values for OSPM to write into this register are in the range [0, PriorityCount – 1].
8.4.6.1.2.10 Resource Priority Registers Implementation Example
This example shows a Resource Priority Registers package containing two Resource Priority Register Descriptors. The
first descriptor describes a register that controls processor boost priority and must be explicitly enabled, while the
second describes a register that controls processor throttle priority that is always enabled.
Package() \\ Resource Priority Registers
{
Package() \\ Resource Priority Register Descriptor
{
Package() { 1 }, \\ Controlled Resources
1, \\ Enable Value
ResourceTemplate() {Register(PCC, 32, 0, 0x110, 2)}, \\ Enable Register
ResourceTemplate() {Register(PCC, 32, 0, 0x111, 2)}, \\ Priority Count
ResourceTemplate() {Register(PCC, 32, 0, 0x112, 2)}, \\ Priority Register
},
(continues on next page)
8.4. Declaring Processors
581
