Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) Specification, Release 6.6
Fig. 8.9: Energy of states A,B and C versus sleep duration
efficiency is important - just that the platform may choose to optimize MR based on the typical case rather than the
worst case.
8.4.3.3.3.1 Minimum Residency and Worst Case Wakeup Latency Combination Across Hierarchy
Levels
The WCWL in _LPI is for a particular local state. When evaluating composite state choices versus system latency
tolerance as part of idle state selection, OSPM will add wakeup latencies across hierarchy levels. For example, if a
system has core powerdown with WCWL = 50 us and cluster powerdown with WCWL = 20 us then the core powerdown
+ cluster powerdown composite state latency is calculated as 70 us.
MRs defined in _LPI apply to a particular hierarchy node. The implicit assumption is that each hierarchy node repre-
sents an independent power manageable domain and can be considered separately. For example, assume that a cluster
retention state is legal if the underlying cores are in core powerdown or core retention. The MR for cluster retention
is based on the energy cost of taking shared logic outside of the cores in and out of retention versus the steady state
power savings achieved in that shared logic while in that state. The key is that the specific state chosen at the core level
does not fundamentally affect the cluster level decision since it is tied to properties of shared logic outside the core.
The energy cost of entering/exiting the cluster state and the power savings it provides are independent of whether the
core is in retention or powerdown. Based on this, MRs are considered independent per level in ACPI. That is, when
comparing MR for different states to expected sleep duration for a particular node, OSPM uses the MRs defined in that
node’s _LPI as is with no adjustment based on states at lower levels of hierarchy (though of course the state must be
legal based on the lower level state’s Enabled Parent State property).
8.4. Declaring Processors
543
